2025 IRP 
TECHNICAL APPENDIX 
VOLUME 3 
TRANSMISSION PLAN 

TECHNICAL APPENDIX
VOLUME 3
INDEX
A. Transmission Planning Description and Process
1. General Description
2. Transmission Planning Principles
3. Planning Mode
4. Transmission System Evaluation
5. Planning Coordination with the ITS
6. Project Determination and Documentation
a. Strategy
b. Developing Tentative Solutions
c. Feasibility Analysis
d. Project Evaluation
e. Recommendation – Project Documentation
7. Budgeting
a. Presentation and Approval
b. Inclusion in Capital Budget
c. Budgetary Review and Control
8. Transmission Planning Tools
9. Guidelines
10.Process Flow Diagram
B. Planning Guidelines
1. NERC/SERC Reliability Standards and Summary
2. ITS Planning Guidelines
3. Bulk Power Transformer Loading Guide
C. System Operations
1. 2024 System Operating Study
2. 2022-2024 System Performance
D. Georgia ITS
1. 10 Year Expansion Plan
a. Executive Summary and Project List
b. Transmission Planning Process Description
c. Performance Criteria
d. Analysis Results – 10 Year Plan Projects
e. Additional System Analysis Notes
2. ITS Loss Study
 PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

E. Interface and Interconnections
1. Regional Transmission Planning
2. Transmission Service Request Summary
3. Southern Company Electric System Interface Analysis
4. Optimal Transmission Sites for Generation in Georgia
F. GPC Distribution Substation Projects & Forecast (Five-Year Loading Plan)
G. Budgeting
1. Average Incremental Cost Overview
2. Budgeting and Budget Control
3. Power Delivery Capacity Addition Expansion Plan
4. Approved Projects (BCAs with Documentation – CEII Folder on PSC FTP 
Site)
H. Appendix
1. Identified Problems & Solutions
a. Thermal Problems & Solutions
b. Voltage Problems & Solutions
2. Load Flow Data Files (CEII Folder on PSC FTP Site)
3. ITS Maps
4. Acronyms, Abbreviations, & Technical Definitions
 PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

FOREWORD
The documents presented in this volume of the IRP Technical Appendix represent a 
snapshot of Georgia Power’s transmission and distribution (T&D) plan, as of December
2024. As new developments occur, the plan will be revised as necessary in accordance 
with the planning procedures these documents describe, and other actions directed by 
the Company’s management. Actions may be driven by factors such as economic 
conditions, customer needs, regulatory changes, etc.
 PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

[A]
TRANSMISSION PLANNING 
DESCRIPTION
&
PROCESS

1
1. GENERAL DESCRIPTION
The Integrated Transmission System (ITS) consists of the physical equipment necessary 
to transmit power from the generating plants and interconnection points to the local area 
distribution load centers. The ITS consists of electric transmission facilities (>40kV) that 
are individually owned and maintained by Georgia Power Company (GPC), Georgia 
Transmission Corporation (GTC), MEAG Power (MEAG) and Dalton Utilities (DU) (i.e. 
the ITS Participants). Transmission planning embodies investment decisions required to 
maintain sufficient capacity in the ITS to reliably meet the power needs of the public. 
Justifications for these decisions are based on technical and economic evaluations of 
options that may be implemented to meet these needs. Under the ITS Agreements, the 
ITS Participants are responsible for meeting their full load requirements, including 
generation, and are responsible for making improvements to their facilities to 
accommodate transmission improvements required by load growth or system reliability.
As of December 31, 2023, Georgia Power’s transmission system consisted of 46kV 
(2,150 miles), 69kV (76 miles), 115kV (5,826 miles), 230kV (2,528 miles), and 500kV 
(1,221 miles) lines totaling approximately 11,801 miles. This transmission system, along 
with other ITS transmission facilities, connected approximately 14,770 MW of GPCowned, installed generating capacity in 2024. The total GPC residential, commercial, and 
industrial peak demand served in 2024 was approximately 16,596 MW.
GPC is a member of the Southern Company Electric System (SCES), one of the largest 
interconnected systems in the United States. The SCES includes portions of the states 
of Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi. In addition, the SCES is a member of the SERC 
Reliability Corporation (SERC), one of six regional entities of the North American Electric 
Reliability Corporation (NERC).
Transmission Planning-East (TP-E) of Southern Company Services (SCS) and Grid 
Transformation of GPC, are responsible for planning the transmission system for GPC.
TP-E develops a planning model of the transmission system for the current year and for 
ten years into the future. This planning model is used to identify transmission problems 
and to evaluate alternative solutions to those problems.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2
NERC has established national planning standards for the electric utility industry. These 
standards provide consistency in planning. In addition, each utility has its own practices 
and requirements. The Guidelines for Planning the Georgia Integrated Transmission 
System and the Guidelines for Planning the Southern Company Electric Transmission 
System are consistent with the NERC Reliability Standards.
Some interchange contract requirements must also be considered in the planning of the 
ITS. GPC, Southern Company (SoCo), and Oglethorpe Power Corporation (OPC) have 
interchange and reliability agreements with other systems such as Duke Power, Dominion 
Energy South Carolina (DESC), Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA), and the Florida 
utilities. Examples of these contracts are:
1. Interchange agreement between TVA and GPC
2. The contract executed by the United States of America Department of the 
Interior acting by and through the Southeastern Power Administration (SEPA)
and GPC
3. The Inter-company Interchange Contract (IIC) among the Southern Company 
member companies; and
4. Block wholesale contracts
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

3
2. TRANSMISSION PLANNING PRINCIPLES
The principles that apply to Georgia’s transmission planning are:
1. Identify and recommend projects that are consistent with the Guidelines for 
Planning the ITS and the Guidelines for Planning the Southern Company Electric 
Transmission System.
2. Identify and recommend projects that are necessary to comply with NERC 
Reliability Standards.
3. Minimize costs associated with the transmission system expansion, considering 
the impact to system reliability.
4. Identify projects with sufficient lead-time to provide for the timely construction of 
new transmission facilities.
5. Coordinate transmission system plans with the plans developed by the GPC 
Planning and Policy groups.
6. Coordinate transmission system plans with all ITS Participants and other 
transmission owners to enhance reliability and minimize associated costs.
7. Coordinate future transmission plans with other GPC departments, other ITS 
Participants, other SCS departments and the regions surrounding the Southeast 
in the project development and planning processes.
8. Maintain adequate interconnections with neighboring utilities.
9. Communicate with GPC management to ensure proper awareness of the 
importance of adequate transmission improvements and system expansion.
10. Utilize existing resources (for example, reusing rights of way, implementing 
voltage conversions, constructing double-circuit lines) where feasible.
11. Minimize transmission losses when cost effective.
12. Minimize the loss of life to transmission equipment from forced operation at higher
loading levels.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

4
These principles provide guidance to Transmission planners and/or planning authorities 
that are called upon to explore existing issues and any future problems encountered in 
the transmission planning process.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

5
3. PLANNING MODEL
The transmission system is modeled mathematically to simulate the characteristics and 
operation of the actual electric power system under any given set of conditions. This 
system model is evaluated under a variety of conditions to reveal problems created by 
the anticipated growth of the system and related power transfers. These problems are 
evident when the performance of the model (system) is determined to be below an 
acceptable standard. The model is then studied to determine the causes of these
problems. Changes are made to the model which solve these problems in varying 
degrees, and, from this, solutions are developed. The most widely accepted models are 
the load flow model and the stability model.
These solutions, which take the form of improvements to be made to the actual system 
or temporary operating guidelines, are examined in relation to the system. The infeasible 
solutions are eliminated, and those remaining are evaluated as to benefit and cost. The 
recommended solutions are those that best fit the system financially, electrically, and 
physically. Funds are allocated to implement the proposed improvements through the 
Capital Budget.
Coordination of the planned system improvements by all ITS Participants must be 
accomplished and included in the system model.
LOAD FLOW
The load flow model is used to study the steady state response of the transmission 
network when supplying the real and reactive load requirements from the generation 
sources and non-territorial suppliers. Using this model, all real and reactive power flows 
as well as the magnitude and phase angle of all system voltages can be calculated. Given 
reliable input data, the load flow is an efficient model for steady-state conditions. Because 
of its accuracy and varied applications, the load flow model can be considered 
fundamental in steady-state analysis and the transmission planning process. Among its 
applications are:
1. The selection of the most economic operation of generators;
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

6
2. The study of disturbances or outages;
3. The planning for additions or expansions; and
4. The evaluation of system performance 
A base case load flow is a load flow model for a specified future date. This model 
incorporates the existing system and all planned additions to the system up to the 
specified date. For example, the 2024 Base Case is a load flow model for the summer
coincident peak hour of 2024. It includes all transmission projects that have been or will 
be completed by May 1, 2024. The model incorporates load forecast estimates and the 
anticipated generation expansion plan. In addition, through communication with 
neighboring systems, necessary outside system models are created. Base case load flow 
models are created for the current year (“Year 0”, used mainly by Operations) and each 
of the next ten years into the future, used by Transmission Planning.
Typical Base Case Release and Study Schedule
A base case load flow building process begins with the compilation of all data required to 
formulate load flow representations for a ten-year forecast period. Included in this 
database are:
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

7
1. A system peak load forecast by the ITS Participants,
2. A generation expansion plan by the ITS Participants,
3. Transmission line, transformer, and capacity data,
4. An interchange schedule,
5. Equivalent network data for adjacent systems, and
6. Budgeted project data.
The changes made in the Fall revision of the GPC Capital Budget are used to update the 
next series of transmission base cases. These changes along with other factors can 
influence the project plans within the ten-year forecast period. Some of these additional 
factors are listed below as examples and include company- or area-specific impacts as 
well as external utility and industry impacts:
• Changes in load forecast,
• Changes in generation resources and patterns,
• Changes in loop flows caused by transactions between neighboring utilities,
• Additional projects that are driven by changing economic activity,
• Increasing equipment and labor costs,
• Alternative Transmission Technologies including some Grid-Enhancing 
Technologies (GETs), and 
• Changing regulatory requirements.
In summary, the load flow building process results in a set of base cases which accurately 
reflect the approved budget projects in concert with the approved generation expansion 
plan and system load forecast. Load flow cases are used to study the proposed 
transmission systems under both normal operating and contingency conditions.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

8
STABILITY 
In contrast to the load flow model that deals in the steady-state mode, the stability model 
is concerned with solutions in the transient and dynamic mode. The transient stability 
model is used primarily to provide information on the capability of the power system to 
remain in synchronism during and immediately following a major disturbance, such as a 
short circuit. A system is said to be stable if an acceptable balance between generation 
and load is maintained. A stable system will remain in synchronism even though individual 
machines may become unstable and trip.
The stability model requires a solved load flow case to specify initial power flows and 
system voltages. The main elements of the stability model are generation, load, and 
transmission. The generation element includes machine characteristics and impedances,
including the impedances of the main power transformers, and characteristics of turbine, 
governor, and excitation. In addition, some machine characteristics may be necessary for 
large generators in neighboring systems. In the stability analysis the loads, as 
represented in the load flow, are typically identified as being of the following types: 
constant current, constant impedance, or constant MVA. The positive sequence 
impedances of the transmission lines and transformers are provided by the load flow 
case.
Beginning with the load flow representation and incorporating any additional data 
requirements, the transient stability problem can be investigated for each machine. Swing 
curves, indicating the relative angular displacements of machines under fault conditions, 
are used to determine the stability condition of the system. A system is judged to be stable 
if the relative angles between machines do not increase without bound.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

9
4. TRANSMISSION SYSTEM EVALUATION
After the system model is complete, the transmission system is screened for thermal and 
voltage constraints. This screen is based on the Guidelines for Planning the Georgia 
Integrated Transmission System.
In evaluating the proposed transmission systems, as modeled by the load flow base 
cases, the transmission planners are concerned with:
1. What are the operating or contingency conditions that may stress the 
transmission system?
2. In what portions of the system do these stress situations develop?
3. What are the underlying issues indicated by the symptoms of low voltages or 
overloaded lines and transformers?
Transmission planning studies generally break down into three broad areas of 
responsibility:
1. Generator connections,
2. Bulk power transmission, and
3. Regional/area transmission. 
Generator connections refer to those transmission elements necessary to tie a proposed 
generating plant into the existing transmission system. These elements include a loop-in 
of an existing transmission line, construction of a new line, or any necessary 500/230kV 
or 230/115kV transformers. Bulk power studies analyze the performance of the 500kV 
and 230kV network in efficiently transferring power from the generators to the load 
centers, under both summer and winter conditions. For studies of generator connections 
and the bulk power system, stability, and adequate transmission capacity are the prime 
considerations. At the regional/area levels, the primary concerns are adequate voltage 
support and line capacity to serve the load areas.
Using the load flow base cases, the transmission planners analyze the ability of the 
transmission system to operate under normal and contingency conditions.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

10
Evaluation of the transmission system under normal conditions requires that all facilities 
operate within normal thermal ratings, with all lines, transformers, and generators in 
service. Normal base case conditions assume an economic dispatch of all SCES, OPC, 
MEAG, and Dalton units to match the transmission system peak load forecast. Under 
normal peak operating conditions, the bulk power system should provide flexible and 
reliable operation of all generating units. By creating "unit-off" load flow base cases, the 
transmission planners investigate the effects of generator unit delays or forced outages 
on the normal transmission system. 
Base cases are developed to model flows that result from known contract obligations to 
supply power through an interchange. The needs of the importing companies may stem 
from generator forced outages, faults on major transmission facilities or unforeseen 
generation shortfalls.
Contingency analysis covers the consequences of the unexpected loss of transmission 
facilities and/or generating units. Contingency evaluations are performed under peak, 
shoulder, and off-peak load conditions. Further studies may be necessary when there is 
reason to suspect that voltage problems, thermal overloads, or instability may occur.
In performing load flow planning studies, the sensitivity of the proposed transmission 
system to load and generation changes is considered. If the load forecast or the 
generation expansion plan change, the level of planned investment in new transmission 
facilities may change.
Overloads on the transmission lines cause reduction of sag clearances due to excessive 
conductor heating. Line loadings up to the design rating are maintained without damaging 
line conductors or exceeding code clearances. Transformer ratings consider the rise in 
temperature of the oil used for transformer cooling, with some loss of life assumed for 
operation above nameplate. 
Generator voltage schedules in load flow analysis reflect the actual generator schedules 
used in operating the system. Adjustments to the voltage schedules become necessary 
in load flow cases representing later years. The transmission planners use the load flow 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

11
and transient stability program to test generator connections for potential problems. It is 
in this study area that a detailed representation of both the generator and each major 
transmission line is employed. The goal is to maintain the integrity of the generating units 
under both fault and no-fault conditions. The most serious fault condition is that of a 
simultaneous fault on all three phases of a transmission line. Other faults that deserve 
review are single phase to ground and two phases to ground.
Short circuit studies are performed on the projected system under normal conditions. 
Problems occur under fault conditions at generating plants and other substations when 
exposure to fault current overstresses the substation equipment. For this reason, all 
500kV, 230kV, and 115kV circuit breakers at generating plants, switching stations, and 
500/230kV or 230/115kV substations are rated higher than the maximum available fault 
current that might be encountered at these locations. In conjunction with the SCS 
Protection & Control Applications Engineering section, the transmission planners
commonly use the short circuit and breaker duty information to provide for the timely 
replacement of overstressed equipment and for the proper sizing of new equipment.
Inertial studies are conducted on the transmission system. These studies involve 
examining the effects on the transmission network of losing a major generating facility 
within the system and in systems tied to the ITS. The sudden deficit of hundreds of MW
of power causes the transmission network surrounding the lost generation facility to 
supply the deficit before remedial action can take place. Inertial studies are performed to 
spot and solve any problems that might develop.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

12
5. PLANNING COORDINATION WITH THE ITS
Planning for the ITS is a coordinated effort among the four ITS Participants. Interaction 
between GPC/SCS and the other ITS Participants takes place at many points throughout 
the year in the annual planning process (see the timeline in Section A), including the 
following:
1. Throughout the year (starting with the previous year’s summer peak load hour), 
each ITS Participant provides data for creating planning model base cases.
a. Each ITS Participant provides for each substation that it owns: historical 
loads; expected future growth rates, load additions, and shifts to and from 
other substations; location, in-service dates, and connection details for any 
new substations it is planning; generation expansion plan and new 
interconnection agreements; and timing, source/sink, and MW amount of 
any firm interchange contracts into which it has entered. This data is 
compiled by SCS into the planning model base cases used by all ITS 
Participants.
b. “Beta” versions of the planning model base cases are provided to the ITS 
Participants for review and error checking. ITS Participants suggest 
changes or corrections that need to be made before the final base cases 
(Versions 1 and 2) are used for screening for thermal and voltage 
constraints.
c. After Version 1 Base Cases are finalized, ITS Participants together review 
future planned projects that should be removed, or “stripped”, from the base 
cases to verify their need and timing. Projects are left in the base cases if 
they are far enough along in the engineering and construction process, have 
contracted obligations for specific years, or are tied to certain assumptions 
(such as improvements associated with new generation). The final Version 
2 base cases represent the completed plan, so it is not necessary to strip 
out projects. 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

13
d. “Stripped” cases are created to conduct screens. These stripped cases are 
constructed from the base cases with projects stripped, and various 
generation dispatches and seasonal loads applied. Before screening, GTC 
and SCS create stripped cases independently and compare their cases to 
resolve any differences.
2. Throughout the year, screening results are reviewed. 
a. After screening is performed, all ITS participants meet to review the thermal 
and voltage constraints identified in the screens. Solutions for these 
constraints are agreed upon for inclusion in the Ten-Year Plan. These 
meetings may decide the need for and timing of the simpler projects or may 
shift the timing of previous projects. For more complex issues, where 
additional studies are needed or multiple constraints are identified in an 
area, joint ITS Planning Working Groups are established.
b. Over the next several weeks, ITS planners responsible for the areas where 
constraints were identified work together on the best solution to be built into 
subsequent versions of base cases by the SCS planners.
3. Each month, representatives of each ITS Participant meet at the Transmission 
Planning Working Group (TPWG) meeting. At this meeting:
a. Each ITS Participant presents new projects. Some of these projects 
address constraints identified and agreed to by the ITS planners as 
described above and need to be recommended for approval at a 
subsequent meeting of the Joint Sub-Committee for Transmission Planning 
(JSTP). If the JSTP agrees with the recommendation, it will recommend 
projects for approval and inclusion in ITS investment to the Joint Committee
for Planning and Operations (Joint Committee). Other projects, such as 
capital maintenance or relay projects, are brought to the TPWG for 
information only.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

14
b. The TPWG determines whether a project sponsored by one ITS Participant 
requires work to be done in another ITS Participant’s facility, in which case 
it will send a Transmission Improvement Notification (TIN). For example, if 
GTC rebuilds a transmission line, GPC may need to replace switches or 
jumpers at a GPC owned substation served by a GTC owned line. In this 
case, GTC would send GPC a TIN requesting that the work be performed.
c. Projects that were presented earlier but not yet approved are discussed and 
potentially approved. These projects may not have been previously 
approved because one or more of the ITS Participants requested more time 
to review or had additional questions or concerns. 
d. Projects with scope changes or cost overruns are reviewed.
e. Various area studies and initiatives and the status and timing of the overall 
planning process are discussed.
4. Each month, representatives of each ITS Participant meet at the Interface Working 
Group (IWG) meeting.
a. At this meeting, details of the annual interface planning process are 
discussed. This process includes agreeing on assumptions, performing 
interface analysis studies, and performing calculations necessary to 
properly allocate among the ITS Participants the transfer capability between 
the Southern Company Electric System and neighboring systems that 
border the ITS.
5. By the time the Ten-Year Plan is published, the ITS Participants provide estimates 
of the costs of their projects for inclusion in the document.
6. ITS Participants are invited to participate in an annual presentation given by SCS 
Transmission Planning, which produces the base cases, explaining the 
assumptions and providing a chance for feedback.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

15
6. PROJECT DETERMINATION AND DOCUMENTATION
The process of determining a transmission project to solve an identified problem can be 
broken down into several steps. 
6a. STRATEGY
The transmission planning process follows an iterative process with a planning horizon 
looking 10 years into the future. However, due to the dynamics of the assumptions and 
data used to develop the latter years of the system model, project proposals are usually 
fully developed for the first five years only (considered to be the near-term planning 
horizon). These projects and their mutual effects are tested throughout the full ten-year 
period. For issues in the last five years of the planning horizon, viable projects are 
identified but not fully scoped, estimated, and budgeted unless long lead-time items such 
as right-of-way acquisition are included.
Projects that have the largest effects on the transmission system are studied first. For 
example, the way a large generating plant is connected to the transmission system is
generally felt throughout the system. Conversely, projects involving the 115kV system are
felt only in the immediate area of the project. Thus, a general outline of study is: 
1. Generation connections, 
2. 500kV system, 
3. 500/230kV transformer capacity, 
4. 230kV system, 
5. 230/115kV transformer capacity, and 
6. 115kV system. 
This process continues in an iterative manner. For example, while the effect of 115kV 
system improvements upon the 500kV systems may be negligible, the 230kV system 
changes may influence the 500kV system projects. Similarly, the 115kV system projects 
may influence the 230kV system projects. This iterative process is performed for each 
interaction of the ten-year planning horizon.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

16
6b. DEVELOPING TENTATIVE SOLUTIONS
If the thermal and voltage problems identified in transmission area studies cannot be 
alleviated with operating guidelines, Transmission Planning determines improvements to 
the transmission system to correct these problems. Where possible, several options for 
system improvements are identified and evaluated. The evaluation process optimizes
cost, system performance, duration of the fixes, and conformity to the long-range
transmission expansion requirements. The results of this process are compiled into a 
study document.
The input to the project determination process is a problem statement. As noted in earlier 
sections, these problems are defined by applying performance criteria to the base case 
models. Built into the base case models is an assumed set of projects, i.e., those 
proposed by the ITS Participants. Thus, other problems and solutions are a framework 
against which these problems are being considered.
In addition to simulation of the future transmission system using base case models, 
problem statements are also generated by other sources:
1. Providing service to new customers could generate problem statements.
Generally, this involves transmission connections for large industrial or 
commercial substations.
2. Timing, size, and location of future generation plants (management decisions) 
necessitate problem statements related to the provisions of transmission
connections to the planned generation plants from the existing transmission 
system.
3. Management decisions concerning interchange capability with neighboring
systems could generate problem statements concerning provisions for the 
specified transmission capacity.
4. GPC Planning and Policy determines future service points for GPC, which
leads to problem statements involving transmission capacity to new service 
points.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

17
5. GPC System Operations will uncover problems that are not routinely studied 
by TP-E.
6. System enhancements proposed by other ITS Participants will uncover 
problems in all five areas listed above.
Before tentative solutions are developed, all problems should be fully defined. Certain 
questions must be answered when defining these problems:
1. Do these problems persist into the future?
2. Do these problems worsen?
3. Are additional problems developing in the area?
4. Is there a more general description of these problems?
5. Are these problems sensitive to load or generation variations?
6. If these problems result from contingency situations, what is the probability of 
these contingencies occurring and what are the consequences? 
As a rule, it is difficult to isolate a single problem. Furthermore, as the study progresses 
into later phases of the project determination process, the problems may need to be 
redefined.
If the problem falls within the near-term planning horizon (within approximately 5 years), 
Transmission Planning Engineers will host a solution team meeting including 
representatives from all parties affected by or involved in the process to resolve the 
identified problem. This meeting usually produces some of the alternatives considered 
and helps set the scope for the project. After the general scope is identified and once the 
full ramifications of all problems are understood, possible solutions are formulated.
Generally, a finite number of reasonable, but not necessarily feasible, solutions are 
devised. Transmission Planning Engineers evaluate these options based on the 
aforementioned criteria and using planning-grade estimates for the cost comparisons.
Examples of possible solutions considered in the near-term planning process include but 
are not limited to implementing or modifying an operating guide, upgrading or re-building 
existing facilities, constructing new facilities, the addition of reactive resources or currentPUBLIC DISCLOSURE

18
limiting devices, and the use of alternative transmission technologies. The solutions 
produced from this process ultimately lead to a primary recommendation that represents 
the best fit to address the problem while also considering cost and other factors as 
previously described.
There are many ways to address the system needs through the methods previously 
mentioned. The following list provides examples of system improvements within each of 
these categories:
• Operating guides – Changing configuration of the system by opening and/or
closing switches or through the redispatch of generation to change the flow of 
power along the transmission lines.
• Upgrading or re-building existing facilities – Upgrading a line currently operated at 
75°C so that it can be operated at 100°C, thereby increasing the rating and 
available capacity of the transmission line.
• Constructing new facilities – Building a new transmission-connected substation 
can provide additional connectivity options and flexibility for operating the 
transmission system.
• Distributed Energy Resources (DERs), including battery storage and small 
generators, that can offset load increases. For thermal overloads, such resources 
are most likely to be suitable in situations where load is served radially, either 
normally or as a result of a contingency. In these situations, each MW from a 
generator or battery provides one MW of circuit loading relief, and the DER can be 
located anywhere downstream of the overload. A DER might then be selected as 
a permanent or temporary alternative to constructing a new line and/or substation, 
or upgrading existing facilities, to serve the additional load. For overloads of 
networked facilities, a DER solution is typically not practical due to the larger 
capacity that is usually required and the limited connection points where it can be 
located to effectively relieve the overload without adversely affecting downstream 
facilities, which are often close to their ratings.
• Addition of reactive resources or current-limiting devices – By adding a capacitor 
bank, series reactor, or a shunt reactor, the system has more assets to help 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

19
operators better regulate real and reactive power flow. A reactive resource such 
as a capacitor bank might be selected if an area suffers from low voltage or a high 
reactive power requirement, while a current-limiting resource such as a series 
reactor might be selected if the area suffers from high power flow along a specific 
path to shift some of the power flow to nearby facilities with more available 
capacity. The addition of reactive resources or current-limiting devices can help 
reduce or eliminate the need for other transmission projects such as a line facility 
upgrade.
• Alternative Transmission Technologies (formally known as Non-Traditional 
Technologies) – GPC evaluates and installs cost-effective alternative transmission 
technologies including some GETs as needed to address specific system needs. 
Examples:
o Static Synchronous Compensators (STATCOM) is a power electronics 
interfaced device whose primary function is to regulate voltage and improve 
stability by injecting or absorbing reactive power during a transient event.
o Static VAR Compensators (SVC) is a power electronics interfaced device 
with a large portion of it being large passive components (such as shunt 
reactor banks, harmonic filter banks, etc.) whose primary function is to 
provide dynamic reactive power compensation, voltage regulation, and 
electrical stability to the surrounding network instead of pursuing 
transmission upgrade projects.
o Advanced power flow controllers’ primary function is to manage and 
optimize the flow of electrical power by adjusting parameters such as 
voltage, current, and phase angle, on the transmission line where the device 
is installed allowing to shift power flow off overloaded lines or increase 
power flow on underutilized lines.
o Transmission Switching is the reconfiguration of the network by opening or 
closing switching devices to re-route power flow and decrease congestion 
in the transmission system. 
o Synchronous Condensers is a dynamic reactive power resource that 
provides or absorbs reactive power by helping maintain the voltage levels 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

20
within the desired range to improve power factor, allowing them to enhance 
the overall stability of the power system
o Voltage Source Converters (VSC) power electronic devices utilized to allow 
efficient power flow management and the integration of renewable energy 
sources. These devices are also used in HVDC systems to convert AC to 
DC and vice versa, providing flexible control on the amount of the power 
flow and even to reverse the power flow direction.
o Advanced conductors operate at higher temperatures, typically higher 
than 150°C, enabling high current-carrying capacity and reduce line losses 
to improve the efficiency, capacity, and reliability of electrical networks due 
to their composite and/or carbon cores. These conductors provide the 
option to reconductor, if existing structures can accommodate, to unlock 
additional capacity and avoid a full line rebuild.
o Tower Lifting is an advance technology solution to raise the height of 
existing transmission line towers to increase line clearance and capacity
since it allows the lines to be operated at higher temperature rating.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

21
6c. FEASIBILITY ANALYSIS
Feasibility analysis involves testing the solutions devised in the preceding section. This 
analysis concerns two broad areas:
1. Does the proposed solution solve the problem? (Electrical Feasibility)
2. Can the solution be implemented? (Physical Feasibility)
ELECTRICAL FEASIBILITY 
In this activity, tentative solutions are simulated using the load flow program. The goal is 
to:
1. Identify proposed solutions that solve the problems and
2. Identify proposed solutions that do not solve the problems.
No solution completely solves the problems indefinitely. Similarly, some solutions may 
improve the situation without really solving the problems. Solutions that cause more 
problems than are solved are excluded. Consideration is given to solution effects on the 
surrounding system. Rejected solutions are documented at this point for inclusion in the 
Project Documentation stage.
The solution feasibility process sheds additional light on the problems. This may result in
problems being redefined, the suggestion of additional possible solutions, or the 
modification of a previous solution.
As in the definition of the problem, feasibility testing is performed using load flows. As 
previously stated, the base cases contain many assumptions. Transmission planners 
note and reflect these base case assumptions in determining the proposed solution 
feasibility. Also, the criticality and sensitivity of the base case assumptions are tested.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

22
PHYSICAL FEASIBILITY 
The determination of physical feasibility is accomplished by consultation with groups 
outside of TP-E. Among the groups contacted at this stage are:
1. GPC Land Department and Location Committee (concerning availability of 
R/W, guying and trimming rights, and substations sites),
2. Engineering (concerning design, protection, control, and construction matters),
3. System Operations (concerning protection, control, maintenance, and 
operating matters), and
4. Region and Transmission & Maintenance Center personnel (since they may 
have knowledge of all the above items).
Consultation with the above groups occurs on an informal basis or through the formation 
of “Solution Teams”. However, all inputs, decisions, and recommendations contributed by 
these groups are documented.
6d. PROJECT EVALUATION
INTRODUCTION 
The input to this phase is a set of feasible solutions to the problems. Up to this point, only 
the current problems under study have explicitly been considered. To evaluate any 
solution properly, all effects are analyzed.
The project selection criteria are centered on economic factors and engineering benefits.
Both the economic and engineering analyses include the solution alternatives and other 
projects affected by each alternative.
As noted previously, the base case load flows contain an assumed set of projects. Until 
the evaluation stage, this set of solutions remains constant. In evaluating the current 
project, the base assumptions are allowed to vary.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

23
The base case models contain other assumptions in addition to the assumed set of 
transmission projects. Additional inputs to the model are:
1. Forecast load totals, 
2. Forecast load distribution,
3. Generation expansion plan, 
4. Forecast interchange contracts,
5. Equivalents of outside systems, and
6. System improvements by other ITS Participants.
All the above parameters are subject to change. Likewise, the performance criteria by 
which the model is tested can change. Since the model is used to define, test, and 
evaluate proposed projects, any change to the model changes the outcome of the project 
determination process. As a result, transmission planners evaluate the sensitivity of 
proposed solutions to changes in the above parameters.
Project determination is an iterative process beginning with problem statements and 
working through the evaluation steps. At this point, various changes will be made to the 
projects involved and the base cases updated. Then the same process is repeated. In 
time, this process will converge on the best solution(s).
Two final notes on the evaluation stage of the project determination process are: 
1.For a true economic analysis, the alternatives being considered should result in 
the same outcome. However, the initial decision made in transmission system 
design will determine, to some extent, all subsequent decisions. Thus, noncoincidental projects will tend to make the future systems diverge, i.e., the further 
out one looks, the less alike the systems become.
2. The evaluation process is a cost/benefit analysis. Costs can be measured with a 
fair degree of accuracy. Benefits are measured, if they can be measured at all, 
in other terms. Thus, in comparing alternative projects, the cost/benefit ratio 
cannot be stated in absolute terms.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

24
BENEFITS OF ALTERNATIVE PROJECTS 
1. Solution to problem
For problems to be identified, situations exist where the system will operate in 
an unacceptable manner (as defined by the performance guidelines). Each of 
the alternatives should restore the system to an acceptable level. However,
there are variations in the adequacy of solution alternatives. In some cases,
this variation can be measured. For example, differences in the number of 
years before other problems develop in the area. In other instances, the 
adequacy of solutions cannot be quantified. In either case, no absolute 
measure of solution adequacy exists. Thus, alternatives are ranked as to 
degree of solution to the problems.
2. Impact on other problems
A benefit of a project is its positive impact on surrounding problems. This impact 
is measured by summarizing the problems or possible delays in project 
implementation that are eliminated.
3. Improvement in reliability
The alternatives under consideration result in differing reliability levels.
Problems occur in two areas: 
a. loss of load, and 
b. system security. 
Loss of load is the loss of service to customers, while system security deals 
with the integrity of the bulk transmission system.
4. Flexibility with regard to future development
Not all alternatives look the same regarding future development. This flexibility 
feature is for development beyond the horizon year. Thus, at the time of the 
study, an identified benefit may not be reflected in the analysis. Additionally, 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

25
system voltage levels are constantly being upgraded. Provisions for this are
made, even if the need to raise operating voltages in an area has not been 
determined.
5. Ease of operation
This benefit refers to operating simplicity. Desirable features for an alternative 
are: 
a. standard switching procedures, 
b. supervisory control, and 
c. easy access to switching points.
6. Improvement in stability
This benefit is not directly measurable. All alternatives must be stable to be 
feasible. However, one alternative may provide greater stability than another
under contingency situations.
7. Increase interchange capability
This benefit is measurable. It is generally desirable to increase interchange 
capability. Beyond a certain point, however, increasing the interchange 
capability becomes less beneficial. Thus, this benefit is in part determined by 
the interchange levels required to maintain adequate reliability.
8. Ease of protection
This benefit is not directly measurable. As with stability, an alternative must be 
protected to some minimum standard to be considered feasible. However, 
there are differing degrees of acceptability of the alternatives. Features such 
as the magnitude of the available fault currents, the existing stress on circuit 
breakers, the ability to utilize standard relays and procedures, and the flexibility 
of protective schemes vary among alternatives.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

26
9. Environmental factors
This benefit is not directly measurable. Some environmental benefits are
reflected in the right-of-way or guying and trimming costs of the various 
alternatives. Also, construction duration times may reflect environmental 
factors. Additionally, public “good will” towards the Company may differ 
depending on which alternative is selected.
ECONOMIC EVALUATION 
All projects are economically evaluated. However, some projects require extensive 
analysis. When required, an economic analysis program is used to calculate the revenue 
requirements for each alternative. The program calculates the levelized annual cost of
each alternative utilizing the revenue requirements of the facility over the useful life of the 
equipment, approximately 40 years. Factors such as the cost of capital, depreciation, and 
taxes are the major components in determining the revenue requirements. The present 
worth of the levelized annual cost is then calculated at the current discount rate.
Construction costs are estimated by the Land and Engineering Departments from 
requests generated by transmission planners when project proposals are entered into the 
Transmission Evaluation and Management System (TEAMS). TEAMS is a computerbased program used to initiate project estimates. The program is also used to enter, track 
and revise projects. 
The effects on adjacent study boundary projects are reflected in the analysis. Alternative
proposals to the problems currently under study include both positive and negative cost 
impacts on the study boundary projects. These impacts appear in the form of inclusion of 
the affected projects in the cost analysis. The affected projects are handled in the same 
manner as the current project under study.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

27
6e. RECOMMENDATION - PROJECT DOCUMENTATION
From the evaluation, a decision is reached as to which solution should be recommended.
Documentation of the recommendation for major projects includes:
1. Management Summary
This section of the project documentation summarizes the problem and the 
proposed solution.
2. Assumption
A list of the assumptions used in the project evaluation process.
3. Problem Statement
This section of the project documentation includes a full statement of the 
problems. Included will be the conditions under which the problem occurs.
Loads, adjoining problems, and any other information necessary to adequately 
show the need for the project is also included in the Problem Statement.
4. Discussion of Alternative Plans
This section of the project documentation contains a discussion of the 
alternatives considered. It summarizes the analysis techniques used, and the 
results obtained including the economic analysis.
5. Recommendation
Statement of recommendation on the preferred plan.
6. Appendix
This section contains the detailed information summarized in the previous 
section. Such things as load flow plots, economic analysis printouts, 
correspondence, estimates, etc. are included.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

28
This document is prepared for each special project just prior to the approval of the project 
for construction. In addition, transmission system projects involving GPC facilities that are 
required due to other ITS Participants’ system improvements or load serving 
requirements are included in the capital budget.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

29
7. BUDGETING
Although the transmission system is studied over a ten-year period, and viable projects 
are identified to address any constraints, the data and assumptions used to construct the 
last five years of the system model are typically too fluid to take through the approval and 
budgeting process. Certain long lead-time projects, typically new lines requiring extensive 
right-of-way acquisition, are exceptions to this. Some of the uncertainties associated with 
these projections are: 1) load growth patterns, 2) generation dispatch, 3) interchange, 4) 
governmental regulations, 5) capital availability, and 6) needs of other ITS Participants.
The budgeting process includes budgeting for five years of approved and forecasted 
improvements to allow for more efficient utilization of resources and equipment. This fiveyear budget provides SCS Supply Chain Management sufficient advance notice for 
ordering major equipment.
7a. PRESENTATION AND APPROVAL
Following the development of a proposed project, the recommendation and 
accompanying documentation are presented to TP-E Management for approval. The 
project cost dictates the level of GPC Management necessary for approval. The project 
and its alternatives are formally presented to the GPC Transmission Project Review Team 
(TPRT) for appropriate ranking. The project is then presented to various groups, all of 
which have previously participated in the problem formulation. Concurrence in the 
recommendation is also obtained from:
1. GPC Project Management, Engineering, Land, and Grid Transformation
(including Transmission, Distribution, and System Operations)
2. Operating regions 
3. The ITS Participants through the TPWG or the Sub-Transmission Working 
Group (STWG), the JSTP, and the Joint Committee.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

30
7b. INCLUSION IN CAPITAL BUDGET
Projects included in GPC’s Capital Budget are reviewed and approved by the GPC 
Transmission and Distribution (GPC T&D) Council and subsequently approved by GPC 
executive management and the Board of Directors. When projects are approved, a 
commitment for funds is made. Therefore, before projects are approved in the Budget, 
final reviews must be made as to necessity, timing, and costs. 
Revisions are necessary for Project Items (PIs) in the Budget due to changes in plans, 
scopes, nature of the jobs, cost estimates, scheduled expenditures by years, or by 
substantial variations in actual cost from the estimated cost. A revision is also required 
when a project is canceled. Any necessary revisions to the Budget are made as soon as 
sufficient information is available.
Whenever PIs are revised, explanations of these revisions are included in the details on 
the PI forms. Revisions are justified as to necessity, timing, and cost. If a change in 
estimated costs occurs in a PI revision, adequate explanations supporting the revised 
costs are given.
Budget revisions are made by approval of Budget Change Authorizations (BCAs). These 
proposed revisions follow the usual interdepartmental routing for approvals and then go 
to the GPC TPRT for final approval. If the revision is greater than $1,000,000 for New 
Business projects or greater than $5,000,000 for all other projects, the proposal must flow 
through the T&D Council for final approval.
7c. BUDGETARY REVIEW AND CONTROL
The Budget is finalized by the fall of each year. The status of each transmission project 
scheduled for completion in the current year is reviewed by August to identify those 
projects that will not be completed by the end of the year. In order that funds will be 
available for the completion of these projects, the Budget is revised so that the necessary 
expenses can be carried over to the following year.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

31
In addition to the above periodic review of the Budget, drastic changes in the load forecast
or in the GPC financial situation necessitates an immediate review of the Budget.
Significant changes in the load forecast or generation expansion plan requires that each 
transmission project be reevaluated with respect to timing and scope. Sudden economic 
constraints placed on GPC expenditures require that each transmission project be 
reevaluated under revised capital availability.
Once the future needs of GPC have been identified and a Budget has been prepared, 
TP-E has a contributing role in budgetary control. Any significant project scope changes 
or costs substantially exceeding the budgeted amounts require that TP-E work with 
Project Management and other departments to affect changes in the projects or initiate 
Budget revisions so that the Budget continues to reflect GPC financial requirements.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

32
8. TRANSMISSION PLANNING TOOLS
PSS/E Power System Simulator Program
The PSS/E Power System Simulator Program developed by Power Technologies Inc. 
(now Siemens Power Transmission & Distribution, Inc., Power Technologies 
International) is a state-of-the-art power systems analysis tool that consists of several 
component programs to assist transmission planners in analyzing and planning the 
transmission system. The main programs used in the planning of the GPC Transmission 
system are the load flow and dynamic simulation programs. Fault analysis and 
Transmission line constant calculation programs are available but are not used within the 
simulator package. The following two main programs are used:
PSS/E Load Flow Program
The PSS/E Load Flow program models all essential parts of the power system 
network necessary to simulate the generation and transmission of power throughout 
the utility system. The program allows the transmission planners to use both AC and 
DC solution techniques to efficiently and effectively analyze the transmission system 
response for various contingencies and to develop transmission expansion.
Transmission Planning currently uses PSS/E Version 34.
PSS/E Dynamics Program
The PSS/E dynamics program is used for performing stability studies, e.g., timedomain simulations of power systems. It is used to model machines and associated 
controls (e.g., exciters, governors, and stabilizers) to perform traditional transient 
stability studies. 
EMTP of PSCAD (Power Systems Computer Aided Design) - Electromagnetic 
Transients Program
These are a time-domain simulation programs that are used primarily to study transient 
events such as switching surges and lightning surges. However, because the power 
system is modeled on a per phase basis in the program, the simulation programs can 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

33
also be used to study steady-state, unbalanced operation of power systems, and an 
inverter-based resource performance. They both have machine modeling capability which 
allows the study of the interaction of machines with power systems on a small scale. This 
capability is useful for studying phenomena such as sub-synchronous resonance.
Economic Dispatch Program
The Economic Dispatch Program was developed by SCS to interact with the Power 
Technologies Inc. load flow program, PSS/E. The program calculates an economic 
dispatch for a given load and spinning reserve requirement specified by the transmission 
planners and is based on the theory that the most economical dispatch is obtained by 
operating all on-line units at the same incremental cost (lambda). The transmission 
planners specify information to the program through terminal interaction and two data files 
with pertinent information on the availability of units, in-service date, retirement date, must 
run status, power generation limits, generator cost data, etc. The program allows the 
transmission planners to input the appropriate economic dispatch directly into files for 
future use with the PSS/E program.
REVREQ - Revenue Requirements Program
REVREQ is a program developed by SCS to generate capital recovery requirements 
associated with individual or multiple capitalized investments made within the SCES.
REVREQ incorporates the effects of income tax credits, accelerated depreciation 
methods, income taxes, deferred taxes, ad valorem taxes, and capital costs into the 
calculations of revenue requirement schedules associated with the capital investment to 
be analyzed. The program uses specific Company related information or an average for 
the SCES in the determination of revenue requirements.
OHLOAD – Overhead Line Loading Program
OHLOAD is a dynamic ampacity rating program for electric conductors developed by the 
Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) in conjunction with GPC and the Georgia 
Institute of Technology. The program calculates ampacity ratings, based on conductor 
temperature limits, by employing planner’s input weather and location parameters. The 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

34
weather parameters that have the greatest influence on the conductor rating are wind 
speed and ambient temperature. By utilizing OHLOAD, the transmission planners assist 
the operators in the evaluation of current system conditions and thereby minimize the 
amount of risk associated with short-term, excess conductor loading. This process may, 
in some cases, even delay or defer system improvement costs. 
MUST - Managing and Utilizing System Transmission
The MUST program, developed by Power Technologies Inc., calculates electric 
transmission transfer capabilities and the impact of transactions and generation dispatch. 
Its results are key to more fully utilizing the electricity grid and managing the effect of 
power transactions and dispatch changes. The capability to move power from one part of 
the transmission grid to another is a key commercial and technical concern in the current 
electric utility environment. Planners determine transmission transfer capability by 
simulating network conditions with equipment outages during changing network 
conditions. 
The purpose of the MUST software is to efficiently calculate: 
• Transaction impacts on transmission areas, interfaces, monitored elements or 
flow-gates. 
• Generation re-dispatch factors for relieving overloads. 
• Incremental transmission capability (FCITC). 
• FCITC variations with respect to network changes, transactions, and generation 
dispatch. 
MUST complements PSS/E data handling and analysis functions with the most advanced 
linear power flow and user interface available. MUST’s speed, ease-of-use, and versatile 
EXCEL interface simplifies and reduces data setup time, and improves results display 
and understanding.
PSS SINCAL - Power System Simulator Siemens Network Calculation Tool
The PSS SINCAL program was developed by Siemens and is used to perform harmonics 
and unbalanced (three-phase) power flow studies. The program is used by transmission 
planners to evaluate the harmonic impact of adding shunt capacitors to the system to 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

35
provide voltage support. Additionally, the program is used to conduct three-phase power 
flow studies to assess the potential impacts of current and voltage imbalance on the 
system. SINCAL’s ability to process PSS/E data provides for greater efficiency with 
regards to performing harmonics and unbalanced power flow studies as compared with 
using the EMTP program.
9. GUIDELINES
The following guidelines are to assist the transmission planners in fulfilling the task of 
transmission planning.
• The Capital Budget will accurately reflect the financial requirements of 
transmission additions on a per year basis.
• Transmission related expenditures will be minimized with appropriate 
consideration being given to system reliability.
• The ITS will meet or exceed all appropriate government and regulatory guidelines
such as the: NERC Planning Standards, the Guidelines for Planning the Georgia 
Integrated Transmission System, and the Guidelines for Planning the Southern 
Company Electric Transmission System.
• The ITS will reliably and economically connect the generation system with load
serving and other substations.
• Transmission ties with other systems will meet the requirements of the ITS.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

36
10. PROCESS FLOW DIAGRAM
 
Start
Compile Load 
Flow Data for 
10-Year 
Forecast 
Period
Create 
Transmission 
System Base 
Case Load Flow 
& Stability 
Models
Analyze & 
Evaluate 
System Models 
Under 
Anticipated 
Load Growth & 
Power 
Transfers
Identify 
Thermal & 
Voltage 
Problems & 
Causes
A
Create 
Solutions for 
Identified 
Problems
Perform 
Electrical & 
Physical 
Feasibility 
Analysis & 
Testing
Evaluate 
Benefits & 
Costs of 
Feasible 
Solutions
Identify & 
Document 
Recommende
d & Rejected 
Solutions
B
Allocate 
Capital Budget 
Funds to 
Implement 
Recommended 
Solutions 
(Projects)
Perform 
Budgetary 
Review & 
Control of 
Implemented 
Solutions 
(Projects)
B
A
Georgia Power Company
Transmission Planning Process
End
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

[B]
TRANSMISSION PLANNING
GUIDELINES

[B1]
NERC & SERC RELIABILITY
STANDARDS

FOREWORD
The Georgia Power Company transmission grid is part of the Southern Company 
transmission grid, one of the largest interconnected systems in the country. The Southern 
Company service area includes portions of the states of Georgia, Alabama, and 
Mississippi. In addition, Southern Company is a member of SERC, one of the regional 
reliability councils of NERC.
The Energy Policy Act of 2005 authorized the creation of a self-regulating electric 
reliability organization (ERO) that spans North America, with Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (FERC) oversight in the United States. The legislation makes compliance 
with NERC Reliability Standards mandatory and enforceable.
NERC Reliability Standards define the reliability requirements for planning and operating 
the North American bulk electric system. NERC may delegate authority to Regional 
Entities to monitor and enforce NERC Reliability Standards. As one of the Regional 
Entities, SERC is delegated to perform certain functions from the ERO and is subject to 
oversight from the FERC. SERC promotes and monitors compliance with mandatory 
Reliability Standards, assesses seasonal and long-term reliability, and monitors the Bulk 
Power System (BPS) through system awareness. 
The Guidelines used for planning the ITS and Southern Company electric system are 
consistent with the NERC Reliability Standards. Additional information about NERC and 
the NERC Reliability Standards can be found at: http://www.nerc.com. Additional 
information about SERC can be found at: http://www.serc1.org.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

[B2]
GEORGIA ITS
TRANSMISSION PLANNING
GUIDELINES

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 1 of 42
I.T.S. PLANNING PROCEDURE NO. 9
GUIDELINES FOR PLANNING
TRANSMISSION SYSTEM FACILITY IMPROVEMENTS
FOR THE
GEORGIA INTEGRATED TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
Issued: 6/28/1998
Revised: 12/02/2021
ASSOCIATED NERC RELIABILIT Y STANDARD(S):
TPL-001-5 (referred to as TPL-001 in this document)
PURPOSE: 
The purpose of this document is to provide an overview of general transmission planning 
philosophies and objectives for planning the Bulk Electric System (“BES”) portion of the Georgia 
Integrated Transmission System (“ITS”), and to document how the ITS Participants – Georgia 
Power Company (“GPC”), Georgia Transmission Corporation (“GTC”), the Municipal Electric 
Authority of Georgia (“MEAG)”, and Dalton Utilities (“DU”) – address each requirement of the 
NERC Reliability Standard TPL-001. This guideline documents the study requirements and the 
associated BES performance criteria that form the basis for the Planning Assessment, which 
covers the Near-Term (years 1-5) and Long-Term (years 6-10) Transmission Planning Horizons. 
The Planning Assessment covers a broad range of system conditions and Contingency events 
as defined in TPL-001 Table 1.
This guideline addresses the steady state and stability topics of TPL-001. Since stability topics 
are now included with this revision, ITS Planning Procedure No. 20 (“Generator Stability 
Guidelines”) is retired. The short circuit topics of TPL-001 are addressed in a separate 
document “Guidelines for System Modeling and Short Circuit Assessment of the Georgia 
Integrated Transmission System” (Attachment A).
The “Transmission Planning Philosophy and Objectives” section below is intended to assist in 
understanding high-level planning objectives and to provide context regarding transmission 
planning within the ITS. Sections 1 through 8, which correspond to the requirements R1 
through R8 in the NERC Reliability Standard TPL-001, provide general technical guidelines for 
Transmission Planners in meeting the reliability requirements of TPL-001. Each section is 
organized starting with the NERC TPL-001 requirements being provided in a box, followed by 
guidance on approaches to meeting the requirement. 
The intent of these guidelines is to help the planner or other interested reader more fully 
understand the philosophies behind the planning processes, and the approaches applied in 
meeting the planning requirements. The background transmission planning information 
provided herein is not intended to conflict with or circumvent any requirements in NERC TPL001, nor should any passages be inferred to remove or increase compliance obligations under 
the NERC Reliability Standards, or any other applicable state or federal laws or regulations. In 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 2 of 42
any cases where a reader might infer a potential conflict, the governing provision is the NERC 
TPL-001 requirement.
Transmission Planning Philosophy and Objectives
Before discussing how the reliability requirements of NERC TPL-001 are addressed, which will 
be covered in detail in Sections 1 through 8, it may be helpful to better understand several 
areas of focus for planning transmission in the ITS, and the reasoning behind them. A primary 
responsibility of transmission planning for the ITS Participants is to comprehensively assess 
how to provide for reliable and economic future system operations, including understanding 
how physical, economic, and regulatory factors may affect how power system facilities operate. 
The following discussion is intended to help increase understanding of why transmission 
planning for the ITS has a proactive, long-term focus on physical delivery capability, and how 
doing so helps reduce uncertainties, supports transmission customers in their decisions, and 
enables more cost effective solutions and system operations.
Fully Meet Reliability Requirements
The goal of the ITS Participants in the transmission planning process is to provide transmission 
customers safe, reliable, and affordable long-term firm delivery from their resource choices to 
their customer loads under a wide-range of system conditions. Securing long-term firm 
transmission service provides customers delivery priority throughout the year with the intent 
that their service will rarely be interrupted or curtailed. Toward this end, it is the ITS 
Participants’ intent to fully meet or exceed NERC and SERC reliability requirements and related 
reliability criteria applicable to transmission planning. 
Support Flexible, Reliable, and Resilient Operations
One of the goals of transmission planning is to minimize challenges in the operating 
environment to the extent practical by identifying potential operating constraints and mitigations 
in advance, and planning a transmission system which reliably supports transmission 
customers’ needs. Transmission planning coordinates closely with system operators to review 
actual stressed system conditions as well as anticipated future conditions to reflect them in 
transmission models. The transmission planning process considers both the reliability 
requirements of the NERC planning standards and also the broader scope of operational 
implications such as impacts on operating reserves, regulation/ramping needs, power quality, 
resiliency, restoration capabilities, and other operational needs. Examples include:
• Ability to economically dispatch network resources and other firm physical transmission 
service under alternate system conditions 
• Ability to perform maintenance and restoration activities
• Ability to reliably mitigate stressed system and potentially recurring operating conditions 
identified by system operators
• Operational impacts of variable energy resources
• Operating implications of changes to firm network generation facilities, coordinating with 
resource planners and generator operators to understand, model, and assess:
o Firmness of fuel supplies and capabilities of backup fuel storage
o How environmental constraints may impact plant performance (Impacts of a 
major Gas Pipeline disruption or prolonged rail service interruption)
o Nuclear offsite power and coordination requirements
o Outage stability limits related to maintenance activities

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 3 of 42
o Impacts on system resiliency and restoration/blackstart capabilities
• Impacts to operating reserve requirements
o Generation additions/changes are assessed and configured such that a single 
contingency will not disconnect more generation than the loss of the largest single 
unit within the Southern Balancing Authority Area (SBAA) (currently ~1300 MWs). 
Similarly, proposed HVAC or HVDC interfaces are also assessed for potential 
impacts to reserve levels.
• Impacts to the ITS and neighboring transmission systems, as well as The ITS’s ability 
to serve customer demand, as a result of extreme events. Extreme events include 
outages of several bulk electric facilities such as the loss of multiple transmission lines 
utilizing common towers or rights-of-way, loss of all generating units at a plant, or the 
loss of a substation. 
In support of future system operations, the ITS seeks to ensure that transmission system 
performance remains reliable, robust, and resilient to address both normal and severe 
operating conditions and events. To address the uncertainties inherent in transmission 
planning inputs (such as load forecasts, resource changes, variable generation, and fuel 
forecasts), the ITS assesses long-term firm physical delivery service needs and identifies 
affordable transmission expansion options considering a wide range of scenarios and operating 
conditions, providing not only a degree of margin in ensuring compliance with all applicable 
reliability standards, but also providing necessary operational flexibility in economically 
accessing firm network generation resources, scheduling maintenance/construction activities, 
and responding to significant system events.
Long-term Focus on reducing resource uncertainties, costs, and delivery risks
Transmission planning at the ITS has a long-term focus aimed at mitigating delivery risks and 
delivery cost uncertainties for long-term firm transmission customers. Long-term firm physical 
transmission service enables transmission customers to dependably meet their current and 
future customer obligations through securing delivery service priority provided in an affordable 
manner at predictable costs. Transmission service requests and commitments made by 
transmission customers for long-term firm physical transmission service result in removing 
resource uncertainties from the planning process, and enable transmission planners in 
assessing their transmission customers’ specific delivery needs, thereby providing lead-time to 
identify and implement reliable and cost effective delivery options 
The Distribution Service Provider (DSPs) of the ITS, as well as those of most non-affiliated 
transmission customers, have “Duty to Serve” obligations that require them to ensure adequate 
and reliable energy supplies at affordable rates for both their current and future customer loads. 
DSPs in the SBAA strive to meet their “Duty to Serve” obligations through procuring generating 
capacity on a least total cost basis, which includes the consideration of transmission delivery 
costs and the lead-times required to implement any associated transmission expansion.
The ITS transmission planning process enables and encourages DSPs to designate sufficient 
network resources to serve their forecasted network loads on a long-term firm basis throughout 
a ten year planning horizon and beyond. DSPs and other transmission customers have the 
opportunity to develop generating resources (or alternately, to procure Purchase Power 
Agreements) by having access to the transmission delivery cost implications of their decisions, 
and the ability to secure priority firm physical transmission service to ensure reliable and 
affordable delivery during the life of their assets or agreements. At times when resource 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 4 of 42
decisions may not yet be known or finalized (typically later in the planning horizon), DSPs may 
provide native load reservations for future resources as inputs into the transmission planning 
process. However, to receive firm service, DSPs must make transmission delivery 
commitments (designations) early enough to enable all required transmission expansion to be 
completed prior to or coincident with the commencement of the desired delivery service from 
the designated resources. In this way, most transmission delivery commitments within the 1-5 
year planning horizon are known, supporting sufficient lead-times for economically constructing 
transmission enhancements. Transmission enhancements for point to point transmission 
customers are also assessed, in a comparable manner, and completed in advance of their 
delivery needs. Transmission planning is open and transparent with transmission reservations 
and studies being available through the Open Access Same-time Information System (OASIS).
Reliable Firm Physical Transmission Service
The ITS seeks to ensure that long-term firm physical transmission service is reliable (and 
seldom subjected to curtailments), enabling transmission customers to mitigate both delivery 
risks and delivery cost exposure in their resource decisions. The transmission planning 
approach to providing firm physical transmission service is to meet reliability requirements and 
also maintain the ability of long-term firm transmission customers to operate their resources 
economically across a range of credible system conditions. For example, the reliability impacts 
of system contingencies (such as the loss of any line or transformer coupled with the loss of 
any generator) are addressed in a manner which does not rely upon curtailing generation with 
firm transmission service or shedding firm loads. In generation pockets, an “Area Max” 
sensitivity is performed for all generation with firm transmission service to ensure that 
generation capacity is not “trapped” in a given area. Through ensuring adequate physical 
capacity is in place to meet long-term firm delivery needs, transmission customers receive 
highly dependable physical delivery service with rare curtailments.
Economic Timing of Transmission Expansion Projects in Corrective Action Plans
Transmission planning for the ITS is a highly iterative and continuous process to accommodate 
potentially changing inputs. Transmission expansion plans are not a blueprint, but rather 
provide a snapshot of the currently identified project solutions and timing. Transmission 
expansion plans are continuously reassessed and revised to reflect updated load forecasts, 
resource changes, new firm delivery service or reliability requirements, new public policy 
requirements, new solution options, and other drivers. The ITS strives to identify the most cost 
effective options for meeting reliability and delivery service requirements, and also strives to 
implement them to coincide with the timing of the transmission delivery service need. 
In continually seeking to reduce costs to transmission customers, transmission expansion 
projects which are not in a construction stage are reassessed each year. Expansion projects 
may be deferred or removed if the reliability need is delayed or goes away. Expansion projects 
may be replaced if more economic solutions are identified. Expansion projects may need to 
be advanced if the reliability need is advanced. By timing completion to coincide with delivery 
service needs, transmission customers are able to commence their delivery service when 
requested, benefit from more cost effective solutions that may arise during the interim and
avoid premature carrying costs. 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 5 of 42
Table of Contents
This guideline is organized in a format similar to the NERC TPL-001 standard. The text in 
shaded grey boxes is taken from the NERC standard. Sections 1 through 8 if this document 
apply to steady state and stability issues. Sections 9 through 12 (in Attachment A) apply to 
short circuit issues. The standard requirement topics are generally organized as follows:
1.0 R1 – Model Requirements........................................................................................................................... 6
2.0 R2 – Annual Planning Assessment and Corrective Action Plan ................................................................. 8
3.0 R3 – Steady State Studies ........................................................................................................................ 18
4.0 R4 – Stability Studies ................................................................................................................................ 25
5.0 R5 – Voltage Evaluation Criteria ............................................................................................................... 29
6.0 R6 – System Instability Evaluation Criteria ............................................................................................... 32
7.0 R7 – Planning Coordination / Transmission Planning Roles and Responsibilities ................................... 34
8.0 R8 – Planning Assessment Distribution .................................................................................................... 35
9.0 R1 – System Model Requirement ............................................................................................................. 37
10.0 R2 – Annual Short Circuit Assessment and Corrective Action Plan ......................................................... 38
11.0 R7 – SCST Protection & Control Applications roles and responsibilities.................................................. 39
12.0 R8 – Short Circuit Assessment Distribution .............................................................................................. 40

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 6 of 42
Guideline
1.0 R1 – Model Requirements
Southern Company Services Transmission’s (SCST) Transmission Planning department 
maintains Transmission system modeling data for the SBAA, including the ITS Participants’ 
facilities, in a database which is typically used to build a 10-year planning horizon series of 
base case system models. The resulting models are used by ITS Participants to complete the 
Transmission Planning steady state analysis studies, and are the basis for stability study model 
development. The model data is consistent with the requirements of NERC standard MOD032-1. The planning base case models contain the most recent as-built system data plus the 
most recent projected Corrective Action Plan (CAP) and therefore represent the projected 
system conditions. Transmission Planning base case models are developed utilizing input from
modeling processes of applicable entities including but not limited to the Eastern 
Interconnection Reliability Assessment Group (ERAG), SERC Long-Term Working Group 
(LTWG), and Florida Reliability Coordinating Council (FRCC).
Transmission base case models are developed or modified at least on an annual basis to reflect 
the most current information and assumptions available concerning the modeling of the system 
in future years. 
 
The system dynamic models for the Southeastern sub-region of SERC are based on the same 
steady state system model with the addition of machine dynamic model data provided in 
accordance with MOD-032-1. Machine dynamic data have been collected from all existing 
generators on the system. As-built machine dynamic data are required from every 
interconnecting generator prior to commercial operation. Machine dynamic data for forecasted 
machines in the Long-Term Transmission Planning Horizon may not be available from the 
Generator Owner (GO). In those cases, dynamic data is assumed based on a similar machine 
type and is updated as provided by the GO.
The system modeling process includes representation of:
1.1.1 Existing generation and Transmission facilities based on the most recent as-built data 
provided by the Generation Owner (GO) or the Transmission Owner (TO).
 
R1. Each Transmission Planner and Planning Coordinator shall maintain System models within its 
respective area for performing the studies needed to complete its Planning Assessment. The models 
shall use data consistent with that provided in accordance with the MOD-032 standards, supplemented 
by other sources as needed, including items represented in the Corrective Action Plan, and shall 
represent projected System conditions. This establishes Category P0 as the normal System condition in 
Table 1. 
1.1. System models shall represent: 
1.1.1. Existing Facilities 1.1.2. New planned Facilities and changes to existing Facilities 
1.1.3. Real and reactive Load forecasts 
1.1.4. Known commitments for Firm Transmission Service and Interchange 
1.1.5. Resources (supply or demand side) required for Load

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 7 of 42
1.1.2 The Transmission system topology, including projects in the most recent CAP and 
other expected Transmission improvements for the Near-Term and Long-Term 
Transmission Planning Horizons. The current forecasts of generation expansion or 
resource plans are provided by all Distribution Service Provider (DSP) and Network 
Integration Transmission Service (NITS) customers. 
1.1.3 Real load forecast is obtained from the DSP’s latest forecast and from all NITS
customers for peak and relevant Off-Peak conditions. Reactive load forecast is based 
on field measured data of the existing system which is extrapolated with a constant 
power factor for future planning horizon years. Specific future loads such as new or 
expanding large industrial customer loads (real and reactive) are modeled based 
upon the best available data.
1.1.4 Known Firm Transmission Service Commitments.
The interchange between external systems is based on the most current external 
system models provided from interconnection-wide and regional data bank models
such as the ERAG’s Multiregional Modeling Working Group (MMWG) or SERC’s 
LTWG. Additional modeling updates obtained from neighboring utilities and/or other 
modeling coordination processes may also be used. 
1.1.5 Generation resource assumptions are based on the latest information provided by 
the DSPs and NITS customers. In addition, generators with approved Firm 
Transmission Service Agreements (TSA’s) are typically modeled on-line at the 
TSA output level consistent with 1.1.5. The TSA amounts are coordinated with 
neighboring utilities through SERC’s LTWG and other modelling coordination 
processes.

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 8 of 42
2.0 R2 – Annual Planning Assessment and Corrective Action Plan
Each ITS Participant prepares an annual 10-year Transmission Planning Assessment. A
corresponding CAP is developed jointly by all Participants.
Steady State: The steady state portion of the Planning Assessments are prepared annually,
reference the applicable studies which have been performed, and contain the Near-Term and 
Long-Term horizon CAP for meeting the TPL-001 requirements. The steady state 
assessments cover evaluation of thermal loading of facilities and bus voltages after 
incorporation of the CAP required to meet TPL-001 Table 1 performance criteria. The 
assessments document the study assumptions and summarize study results validating the 
CAP. For Southern Company, the consolidated steady state analysis Planning Assessment 
consolidates the CAPs of Southern’s three OPCos and the ITS participants. Each ITS 
Participant’s CAP includes the other Participants’ transmission system plans. 
Stability: The stability portion of the Planning Assessment is prepared annually and references 
the applicable studies which have been performed. This portion of the assessment documents 
the assumptions and summarizes the results of the stability analyses. The studies are used to 
develop recommendations involving relay schemes, breaker specifications or requirements, 
System Operating Limits (SOL’s), and System improvements. The recommendations made
are included in the stability portion of the CAP. 
Steady State: The Planning Assessments are based on annual studies which are performed 
for each year of the Near-Term Planning Horizon. These studies consider TPL-001 Table 1 
Category P0-P7 Planning Events and appropriate Extreme Events. The results 
demonstrate that required performance criteria are met based on a jointly developed CAP. 
This CAP is reassessed each year to confirm continued need, timing, and scope or other 
mitigation actions until projects have transitioned from planning to a construction stage. These
reassessments also investigate potential need for additional mitigating actions or modification 
to projects currently included in the CAP. The CAP considers and reflects the respective lead 
times to complete any identified Transmission projects.
R2. Each Transmission Planner and Planning Coordinator shall prepare an annual Planning Assessment of 
its portion of the BES. This Planning Assessment shall use current or qualified past studies (as indicated 
in Requirement R2, Part 2.6), document assumptions, and document summarized results of the steady 
state analyses, short circuit analyses, and Stability analyses.
2.1. For the Planning Assessment, the Near-Term Transmission Planning Horizon portion of the 
steady state analysis shall be assessed annually and be supported by current annual studies or 
qualified past studies as indicated in Requirement R2, Part 2.6. 
Qualifying studies need to include the following conditions:
2.1.1. System peak Load for either Year One or year two, and for year five. 
2.1.2. System Off-Peak Load for one of the five years. 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 9 of 42
2.1.1 – System peak loading models representing summer loading conditions are developed 
and studied for each of the five years in the Near-Term Transmission Planning Horizon.
These models are produced by Southern Company Transmission Planning for the entire 
SBAA, including the ITS Participants.
2.1.2 – System Off-Peak load models, which represent approximately 93% of Summer Peak 
Demand with hydro generation motoring (for hydro units capable of motoring1), are 
developed and studied for each of the years in the Near-Term Transmission Planning 
Horizon. This Off-Peak load assumption for steady state analysis is anticipated to result in 
the highest Off-Peak System stress with a significant portion of energy limited resources
(hydro and solar) projected to be off-line. These cases are also referred to as “Shoulder
case” models. 
An additional series of Off-Peak cases are evaluated which represent approximately 70% of 
the Summer Peak Demand.
System base case models are considered starting points for Peak Demand and Off-Peak 
evaluations. The CAP is developed based on these System models and analyzed against 
a range of assumption sensitivities such as those listed in R2.1.4 for Peak Demand and OffPeak conditions. The Planning Assessments will document the sensitivity study 
assumptions evaluated in the planning studies.
Generating resources are modeled in the base cases to meet forecasted loads. In NearTerm Transmission Planning Horizon models, available generation is typically known. In 
Long-Term Transmission Planning Horizon models, DSPs may include forecasted 
generation to meet their forecasted load growth. Sensitivity cases should be evaluated to 
determine if forecasted generation should be relocated in the model for local area planning 
to avoid an unintended positive or negative impact on analysis results. 
1 Motoring, also known as synchronous condenser operation, models the generator controlling voltage using the 
reactive capabilities of the machine. Motoring requires a small amount of real power from the transmission system 
to supply station service, and to overcome windage and friction of the generator. 
Qualifying studies need to include the following conditions:
2.1.3. For each of the studies described in Requirement R2, Parts 2.1.1 and 2.1.2, 
sensitivity case(s) shall be utilized to demonstrate the impact of changes to the basic 
assumptions used in the model. To accomplish this, the sensitivity analysis in the 
Planning Assessment must vary one or more of the following conditions by a sufficient 
amount to stress the System within a range of credible conditions that demonstrate a 
measurable change in System response: 
• Real and reactive forecasted Load. 
• Expected transfers. 
• Expected in service dates of new or modified Transmission Facilities. 
• Reactive resource capability. 
• Generation additions, retirements, or other dispatch scenarios. 
• Controllable Loads and Demand Side Management. 
• Duration or timing of known Transmission outages. 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 10 of 42
TP/PC Technical Rationale (Known Outages): In the SBAA, most outages for system 
additions and maintenance are taken in the Spring and Fall times of the year due to the 
lower load levels and availability of generation for redispatch. Each outage goes through a 
rigorous review and scheduling process to ensure that system reliability is maintained. The 
outages of more concern for inclusion in steady-state planning assessments for the SBAA
in the Near-Term Planning Horizon are those that are expected to occur during the Summer 
and Winter peak seasons when system load is much higher and fewer resources exist for 
use in generation redispatch. It is outages that occur during these higher load level periods 
that need to be evaluated for inclusion in system steady-state assessments per the 
standard. To accomplish this, outages which are known to be required during these periods 
will be reviewed for inclusion in the Near-Term Planning Horizon system analysis. 
For the SBAA, known outages are defined as:
1. An outage that is planned and scheduled in the Near-Term Planning Horizon, 
including those with some level of schedule uncertainty.
2. An outage that is the result of equipment that has been damaged and where the 
equipment is projected to be out of service for an extended period of time.
Within the SBAA, outage coordination is a continuous process with outages being evaluated 
and added to the known SBAA outages throughout the year. A request for a list of outages 
that are known, at the time of the request, will be sent at least annually to the SCS Bulk 
Power Operations Department. The list received from the SCS Bulk Power Operations 
Department will be the outages considered for inclusion in Near-Term Planning Horizon 
steady-state assessment. This list can be augmented with outages from TOs which meet 
the criteria, but which were not included in the official outage list obtained from the Bulk 
Power Operations Department if the outages are determined to have a significant reliability 
impact. Once the list is received from SCS Bulk Power Operations, each PC in the SBAA
will evaluate the outages in their area to determine if, based on timing, location, and duration 
the outage should be included in cases or should be included in in the assessment. In the 
SBAA, duration will never be the sole reason for exclusion of an outage for inclusion in the 
model. The review will include determining what Facilities will be taken out of service in the 
model especially when multiple sections of a breaker-to-breaker line are included. Once 
Qualifying studies need to include the following conditions:
2.1.4. When known outage(s) of generation or Transmission Facility(ies) are planned in 
the Near-Term Planning Horizon, the impact of selected known outages on System 
performance shall be assessed. These known outage(s) shall be selected for assessment 
consistent with a documented outage coordination procedure or technical rationale by 
the Planning Coordinator or Transmission Planner. Known outage(s) shall not be
excluded solely based upon outage duration. The assessment shall be performed for the 
P0 and P1 categories identified in Table 1 with the System peak or Off-Peak conditions 
that the System is expected to experience when the known outage(s) are planned. This 
assessment shall include, at a minimum known outages expected to produce more 
severe System impacts on the Planning Coordinator or Transmission Planner’s portion of 
the BES. Past or current studies may support the selection of known outage(s), if the 
study(s) has comparable post-Contingency System conditions and configuration such as 
those following P3 or P6 category events in Table 1.

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 11 of 42
the outages have been reviewed and selected for inclusion, a review with the Reliability 
Coordinator (RC) and/or their staff will take place to ensure the RC is in agreement that the 
most limiting system conditions will be included in steady-state planning assessments.
Assessments are performed for known outages on peak and off-peak planning models for the 
P0 and P1 (known outage plus additional single contingency) planning events as described in 
R3.4 with contingencies evaluated per R3.3.
The Transmission equipment sparing strategy is reviewed annually by the ITS Spare 
Equipment Working Group to identify Transmission equipment with a manufacturing or 
replacement lead time greater than one year. During system studies, if any long lead time 
Transmission equipment (one year or more) is identified that does not have a spare, then 
its unavailability will be modeled and evaluated with P0, P1, P2 events considered in the 
Near-Term Transmission Planning Horizon.
Steady State: Annual planning studies are performed for TPL-001 Table 1 P0, P1, and P3 
category planning events for each year in the Long-Term Transmission Planning Horizon.
P2, P4-P7, and Extreme Events are evaluated for at least one year of the five year LongTerm Transmission Planning Horizon. The rationale for selecting the year to study is
discussed as a part of the report documentation.
 
Qualifying studies need to include the following conditions:
2.1.5. When an entity’s spare equipment strategy could result in the unavailability of 
major Transmission equipment that has a lead time of one year or more (such as a 
transformer), the impact of this possible unavailability on System performance shall be 
assessed. The analysis shall be performed for the P0, P1, and P2 categories identified in 
Table 1 with the conditions that the System is expected to experience during the 
possible unavailability of the long lead time equipment.
2.2. For the Planning Assessment, the Long-Term Transmission Planning Horizon portion 
of the steady state analysis shall be assessed annually and be supported by the following 
annual current study, supplemented with qualified past studies as indicated in Requirement R2, 
Part 2.6: 
2.2.1. A current study assessing expected System peak Load conditions for one of the 
years in the Long-Term Transmission Planning Horizon and the rationale for why that 
year was selected. 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 12 of 42
Short Circuit: Addressed in “Guidelines for System Modeling and Short Circuit Assessment of 
the Georgia Integrated Transmission System” provided in Appendix A.
The stability portion of the Planning Assessment for the Near-Term Transmission Planning 
Horizon is prepared annually and utilizes the applicable current or past studies which have 
been performed.
Stability studies are generally performed for two system load levels –Summer Peak Demand
and 50% of Summer Peak Demand (Off-Peak load).
2.4.1 The annual Peak Demand case studied is generally chosen to be a later year in the NearTerm Transmission Planning Horizon because System load tends to increase with time in the 
planning models. The annual Peak Demand cases include a dynamic load model which 
represents the effects of induction motors.
2.4.2 The Off-Peak case with load levels 50% of the Summer Peak Demand is modeled for an 
early year in the Near-Term Transmission Planning Horizon. 
2.3. The short circuit analysis portion of the Planning Assessment shall be conducted annually 
addressing the Near-Term Transmission Planning Horizon and can be supported by current or 
past studies as qualified in Requirement R2, Part 2.6. The analysis shall be used to determine 
whether circuit breakers have interrupting capability for Faults that they will be expected to 
interrupt using the System short circuit model with any planned generation and Transmission 
Facilities in service which could impact the study area.
2.4. For the Planning Assessment, the Near-Term Transmission Planning Horizon portion of the 
Stability analysis shall be assessed annually and be supported by current or past studies as 
qualified in Requirement R2, Part2.6. The following studies are required: 
2.4.1. System peak Load for one of the five years. System peak Load levels shall include 
a Load model which represents the expected dynamic behavior of Loads that could 
impact the study area, considering the behavior of induction motor Loads. An 
aggregate System Load model which represents the overall dynamic behavior of the 
Load is acceptable. 
2.4.2. System Off-Peak Load for one of the five years. 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 13 of 42
Stability base case models are considered as starting points for system evaluations. The 
CAP is developed based on these system models and analyzed against one or more of the
assumption sensitivities listed above. 
TP/PC Technical Rationale (Known Outages): In the SBAA, most outages for system 
additions and maintenance are taken in the Spring and Fall times of the year due to the 
lower load levels and availability of generation for redispatch. Each outage goes through a 
rigorous review and scheduling process to ensure that system reliability is maintained. The 
outages of more concern for inclusion in stability planning assessments for the SBAA in the 
Near-Term Planning Horizon are those that are expected to occur during the Summer and 
Winter peak seasons when system load is much higher and fewer resources exist for use 
in generation redispatch or during Spring and Fall seasons at light load levels. It is outages 
that occur during these load levels that need to be evaluated for inclusion in system stability 
assessments per the standard. To accomplish this, outages which are known to be required 
during these periods will be reviewed for inclusion in the Near-Term Planning Horizon 
system stability analysis. 
For the SBAA, known outages are defined as:
1. An outage that is planned and scheduled in the Near-Term Planning Horizon, 
including those with some level of schedule uncertainty.
2.4.3. For each of the studies described in Requirement R2, Parts 2.4.1 and 2.4.2, sensitivity 
case(s) shall be utilized to demonstrate the impact of changes to the basic assumptions used in 
the model. To accomplish this, the sensitivity analysis in the Planning Assessment must vary 
one or more of the following conditions by a sufficient amount to stress the System within a 
range of credible conditions that demonstrate a measurable change in performance: 
• Load level, Load forecast, or dynamic Load model assumptions. 
• Expected transfers. 
• Expected in service dates of new or modified Transmission Facilities. 
• Reactive resource capability. 
• Generation additions, retirements, or other dispatch scenarios. 
2.4.4. When known outage(s) of generation or Transmission Facility(ies) are planned in the NearTerm Planning Horizon, the impact of selected known outages on System performance shall be 
assessed. These known outage(s) shall be selected for assessment consistent with a documented 
outage coordination procedure or technical rationale by the Planning Coordinator or Transmission 
Planner. Known outage(s) shall not be excluded solely based upon outage duration. The 
assessment shall be performed for the P1 categories identified in Table 1 with the System peak or 
Off-Peak conditions that the System is expected to experience when the known outage(s) are 
planned. This assessment shall include, at a minimum, those known outages expected to produce 
more severe System impacts on the Planning Coordinator or Transmission Planner’s portion of the 
BES. Past or current studies may support the selection of known outage(s), if the study(s) has 
comparable post-Contingency System conditions and configuration such as those following P3 or 
P6 category events in Table 1.

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 14 of 42
2. An outage that is the result of equipment that has been damaged and where the 
equipment is projected to be out of service for an extended period of time.
Within the SBAA, outage coordination is a continuous process with outages being 
evaluated and added to the known SBAA outages throughout the year. A request for a 
list of outages that are known, at the time of the request, will be sent at least annually to 
the SCS Bulk Power Operations Department. The list received from the SCS Bulk Power 
Operations Department will be the outages considered for inclusion in Near-Term 
Planning Horizon stability assessment. This list can be augmented with outages from 
TOs which meet the criteria, but which were not included in the official outage list obtained 
from the Bulk Power Operations Department if the outages are determined to have a 
significant reliability impact. Once the list is received from SCS Bulk Power Operations, 
each PC in the SBAA will evaluate the outages in their area to determine if based on 
timing, location, and duration the outage should be included in in the assessment. In the 
SBAA, duration will never be the sole reason for exclusion of an outage for inclusion in 
the model. The review will include determining what Facilities will be taken out of service 
in the model especially when multiple sections of a breaker-to-breaker line are included. 
Once the outages have been reviewed and selected for inclusion, a review with the 
Reliability Coordinator (RC) and/or their staff will take place to ensure the RC is in 
agreement that the most limiting system conditions will be included in stability planning 
assessments.
Assessments are performed for known outages on peak and off-peak planning models for the 
P0 and P1 (known outage plus additional single contingency) planning events as described in 
R3.4 with contingencies evaluated per R3.3.
The Transmission equipment sparing strategy is reviewed annually by the ITS Spare 
Equipment Working Group to identify Transmission equipment with a manufacturing or 
replacement lead time greater than one year. During system studies, if any long lead time 
Transmission equipment (one year or more) is identified that does not have a spare, then 
its unavailability will be modeled and evaluated with P0, P1, P2 events considered in the 
Near-Term Transmission Planning Horizon.
• See Section 2.1.5 above for details on how the spare equipment list is obtained.
2.4.5. When an entity’s spare equipment strategy could result in the unavailability of major 
Transmission equipment that has a lead time of one year or more (such as a transformer), the 
impact of this possible unavailability on System performance shall be assessed. Based upon 
this assessment, an analysis shall be performed for the selected P1 and P2 category events 
identified in Table 1 for which the unavailability is expected to produce more severe System 
impacts on its portion of the BES. The analysis shall simulate the conditions that the System is 
expected to experience during the possible unavailability of the long lead time equipment.

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 15 of 42
Stability: A stability assessment is made for the Long-Term Transmission Planning Horizon 
for known generation additions or changes. This assessment may utilize applicable current 
or past studies which have been performed.
Steady State: Steady state analysis for the Near-Term and Long-Term Transmission 
Planning Horizon is typically performed annually and therefore use of past studies under 
R2.6 would not normally apply. However, in situations where qualifying past studies are 
still deemed appropriate under 2.6, then the required supporting technical rationale will be 
provided with the Planning Assessment. 
Stability: Qualifying past studies will be used along with current studies for the stability 
assessment. When past studies are used, documentation will be included with the Planning 
Assessment showing that no material changes have occurred in the system which would affect 
the results of the study. Also, when past studies are more than five calendar years old, a 
technical rationale will be provided to show why the study is still valid.
Short Circuit: Addressed in “Guidelines for System Modeling and Short Circuit Assessment of 
the Georgia Integrated Transmission System” provided in Appendix A.
2.5. For the Planning Assessment, the Long-Term Transmission Planning Horizon portion of the 
Stability analysis shall be assessed to address the impact of proposed material generation 
additions or changes in that timeframe and be supported by current or past studies as qualified 
in Requirement R2, Part2.6 and shall include documentation to support the technical rationale 
for determining material changes. 
2.6. Past studies may be used to support the Planning Assessment if they meet the following 
requirements: 
2.6.1. For steady state, short circuit, or Stability analysis: the study shall be five 
calendar years old or less, unless a technical rationale can be provided to demonstrate 
that the results of an older study are still valid. 
2.6.2. For steady state, short circuit, or Stability analysis: no material changes have 
occurred to the System represented in the study. Documentation to support the 
technical rationale for determining material changes shall be included. 
2.7. For planning events shown in Table 1, when the analysis indicates an inability of the 
System to meet the performance requirements in Table 1, the Planning Assessment shall 
include Corrective Action Plan(s) addressing how the performance requirements will be met. 
Revisions to the Corrective Action Plan(s) are allowed in subsequent Planning Assessments but 
the planned System shall continue to meet the performance requirements in Table 1. 
Corrective Action Plan(s) do not need to be developed solely to meet the performance 
requirements for a single sensitivity case analyzed in accordance with Requirements R2, Parts 
2.1.4 and 2.4.3. 
2.7.4. Be reviewed in subsequent annual Planning Assessments for continued validity 
and implementation status of identified System Facilities and Operating Procedures. 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 16 of 42
Steady State: The Planning Assessment is based on annual studies of TPL-001 Table 1 
performance requirements. The CAP is summarized in an attachment to the annual Planning 
Assessment report.
Stability: The stability portion of the Planning Assessment is based on current and past studies 
which have been performed. These studies are used to develop recommendations involving 
relay schemes, breakers, stability limits, and system improvements. The recommendations 
made are included in the CAP. 
The annual planning process includes simulation of each of the planning events of TPL-001
Table 1. In cases where the existing Transmission system does not meet the TPL-001 Table 
1 performance requirements, a CAP will be developed that includes combinations of operating 
guides and Transmission expansion projects. In cases where operating guides are used to 
meet system performance requirements, those guides are provided to Transmission 
Operations (including the RC) for review at least annually as part of the planning process. 
Each year the CAP from the previous year is reevaluated based on any known or forecasted 
system changes (including modification or retirement of Transmission or generation Facilities)
and updated as needed. The annual Transmission planning study is the evaluation of the most 
recent CAP’s ability to meet the performance requirements of TPL-001 Table 1.
Transmission enhancements recommended as part of the CAP are based on the 10-year
planning horizon base cases that represent the latest load and generation forecasts provided 
by the DSPs and NITS customers. The effectiveness of the CAP will be evaluated against 
future sensitivity scenarios as described in R2.1.4 and R2.4.3. If the CAP is found to not meet 
performance requirements for multiple future sensitivities, then the proposed CAP solutions
would be re-evaluated considering factors such as operational flexibility or system restoration 
The Corrective Action Plan(s) shall: 
2.7.1. List System deficiencies and the associated actions needed to achieve required 
System performance. Examples of such actions include: 
• Installation, modification, retirement, or removal of Transmission and 
generation Facilities and any associated equipment. 
• Installation, modification, or removal of Protection Systems or Remedial Action 
Schemes
• Installation or modification of automatic generation tripping as a response to a 
single or multiple Contingency to mitigate Stability performance constraints. 
• Installation or modification of manual and automatic generation 
runback/tripping as a response to a single or multiple Contingency to mitigate 
steady state performance constraints. 
• Use of Operating Procedures specifying how long they will be needed as part of 
the Corrective Action Plan. 
• Use of rate applications, DSM, new technologies, or other initiatives. 
2.7.2. Include actions to resolve performance deficiencies identified in multiple sensitivity 
studies or provide a rationale for why actions were not necessary. 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 17 of 42
flexibility. An explanation will be provided in the Planning Assessment if the CAP is not
modified to address performance deficiencies observed in multiple sensitivity studies. 
In some cases, unexpected system changes may occur beyond the control of the Transmission 
Planner or Planning Coordinator which prevent the planned implementation of a CAP or result 
in the CAP not achieving the intended results. In such cases, if a revised CAP cannot be 
implemented in the required timeframe, the Transmission Planner will document the actions 
being taken to correct the situation. During the transition, the Transmission Planner will identify 
and document the situation which caused the problem, the options evaluated to address it, and 
whether non-consequential load loss or curtailment of Firm Transmission Service are being 
utilized during the interim until a permanent solution is in place. In addition to the near-term 
actions being taken to mitigate the reliability constraint, the CAP will also be updated to 
document the expected in-service date of Facility additions needed to resolve the situation
without relying upon non-consequential load loss or curtailments.
The CAP is reviewed and updated annually and as needed. Operating guides are provided to 
Transmission Operations (including the RC) annually for review. The CAP will contain the 
implementation status.
Short Circuit: Addressed in “Guidelines for System Modeling and Short Circuit Assessment of 
the Georgia Integrated Transmission System” provided in Appendix A.
2.7.3. If situations arise that are beyond the control of the Transmission Planner or Planning 
Coordinator that prevent the implementation of a Corrective Action Plan in the required 
timeframe, then the Transmission Planner or Planning Coordinator is permitted to utilize NonConsequential Load Loss and curtailment of Firm Transmission Service to correct the situation 
that would normally not be permitted in Table 1, provided that the Transmission Planner or 
Planning Coordinator documents that they are taking actions to resolve the situation. The 
Transmission Planner or Planning Coordinator shall document the situation causing the 
problem, alternatives evaluated, and the use of Non-Consequential Load Loss or curtailment of 
Firm Transmission Service. 
2.7.4. Be reviewed in subsequent annual Planning Assessments for continued validity 
and implementation status of identified System Facilities and Operating Procedures. 
2.8. For short circuit analysis, if the short circuit current interrupting duty on circuit breakers 
determined in Requirement R2, Part 2.3 exceeds their Equipment Rating, the Planning 
Assessment shall include a Corrective Action Plan to address the Equipment Rating constraints. 
The Corrective Action Plan shall: 
2.8.1. List System deficiencies and the associated actions needed to achieve required 
System performance. 
2.8.2. Be reviewed in subsequent annual Planning Assessments for continued validity 
and implementation status of identified System Facilities and Operating Procedures. 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 18 of 42
3.0 R3 – Steady State Studies
Steady State: The Transmission Planner and Planning Coordinator perform studies for the 
Near-Term and Long-Term Transmission Planning Horizons per Requirement R2, Parts 2.1, 
and 2.2, respectively. These studies are based on computer simulation models that are 
updated annually using data provided per Requirement R1.
Steady State: System studies are performed for each category of planning events of TPL001 Table 1 as described in R3.4 with contingencies evaluated per R3.3. 
Steady state: The extreme events described in R3.5 are modeled based on Subject Matter 
Expert (SME) knowledge of the System. 
These post extreme event simulations are reviewed to determine if they result in:
• Loss of substantial customer demand (generally exceeding loss of 300MW of total
load), or 
• Cascading outage of Transmission Facilities (per the criteria in R6), or 
• The inability of a portion of the balancing area to reach a stable post-event operating 
point, or 
• Potential impacts beyond the SBAA into neighboring Systems. 
Extreme events with significant potential impacts will be reviewed and options to mitigate 
the impacts identified. CAP recommendations will consider the probability of occurrence,
severity of potential impacts, and the associated costs.
R3. For the steady state portion of the Planning Assessment, each Transmission Planner and Planning 
Coordinator shall perform studies for the Near-Term and Long-Term Transmission Planning Horizons in 
Requirement R2, Parts 2.1, and 2.2. The studies shall be based on computer simulation models using 
data provided in Requirement R1. 
3.1. Studies shall be performed for planning events to determine whether the BES meets the 
performance requirements in Table 1 based on the Contingency list created in Requirement R3, 
Part 3.4
3.2. Studies shall be performed to assess the impact of the extreme events which are identified 
by the list created in Requirement R3, Part 3.5. 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 19 of 42
3.3.1 – SMEs evaluate contingencies on the transmission system to simulate a post-fault 
clearing steady state case consistent with protective device operation.
3.3.1.1 - Generators in the SBAA are generally modeled explicitly including their step up 
transformers. The model includes generator reactive limits and generator terminal voltage 
limits which have been provided by GOs. Terminal voltage limits, including voltage limits due 
to station service, are based on a coordinated study with generating plant owners/operators. 
Generators in the model are generally set to regulate the high side bus voltage to a scheduled 
value without violating the generator reactive limits. If the generator reactive capability is not 
sufficient to maintain the high side bus voltage, the generator is fixed at its reactive power
absorption or production limit in the simulation solution. Planners monitor the generator 
terminal voltage in their studies to ensure the voltages are within the acceptable range provided 
by the GO. If the generator terminal voltage is below the acceptable value either the generator 
terminal voltage limit must be addressed or the generator must be assumed to trip as a result 
of the initiating Contingency. 
3.3.1.2 – The evaluation of Transmission Facility tripping based on relay loadability will be 
initially performed with a conservative screening process. If the screening process indicates 
potential relay operation, then a detailed review will be conducted based on actual relay 
settings.
Transmission lines
For 230kV and above, contingency case line loading results are screened against 150% 
of the Winter Rate A Facility Rating and where exceeded are evaluated against actual 
relay setting.
For all transmission lines below 230kV, contingency case line loading results are 
screened against 125% of the Winter Rate A Facility Rating and where exceeded are 
evaluated against actual relay setting.
Autotransformers
500/230kV, 230/161kV or 230/115kV contingency case transformer branch loading 
results are screened against 125% of the maximum continuous Facility nameplate 
Rating, and where exceeded, are evaluated against actual relay setting.
3.3. Contingency analyses for Requirement R3, Parts 3.1 & 3.2 shall: 
3.3.1. Simulate the removal of all elements that the Protection System and other 
automatic controls are expected to disconnect for each Contingency without operator 
intervention. The analyses shall include the impact of subsequent: 
3.3.1.1. Tripping of generators where simulations show generator bus voltages 
or high side of the generation step up (GSU) voltages are less than known or 
assumed minimum generator steady state or ride through voltage limitations. 
Include in the assessment any assumptions made. 
3.3.1.2. Tripping of Transmission elements where relay loadability limits are 
exceeded. 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 20 of 42
If the screening results exceed the acceptable thermal loading criteria:
• Request the actual Zone 3 or transformer overload relay trip settings for the Facility in 
question.
• If the contingency loading exceeds the actual Zone 3 or transformer overload settings,
determine the proper corrective action.
For events where subsequent Facility tripping is not allowable P0 – P7, the corrective action
items could include allowable modification to relay settings or schemes, or other solutions 
including System modifications.
For extreme events where subsequent Facility tripping is allowed, corrective actions similar to 
P0 - P7 events may be evaluated, or the opening of the line or transformer branch may be 
evaluated per R3.5.
In either case, when System adjustments or operating guides are used to reduce a Facility 
loading within an acceptable time, an assessment is performed to ensure that the contingency 
loading did not exceed overload relay settings to ensure that Facilities do not trip based on 
relay loadability.
In steady state analyses, devices that have automatic operations are modeled in automatic 
mode, such as load tap changers, switched reactive devices, and continuous reactive 
devices. Also, generator operator generator terminal voltage adjustments to meet voltage 
schedules are simulated by modeling in automatic mode.
The analysis methods used to model the planning events of Table 1 vary by event, therefore 
an explanation is provided for simulations of each planning event. For most P0-P7 category 
events, all events in the ITS meeting the event description are evaluated unless specifically 
noted in the study. Therefore, a comprehensive “more severe planning event list” is not 
created. For situations where all events are not modeled in the study an explanation is provided 
in the following discussion for each event category. In all cases, the post-contingency 
simulation results, branch thermal loadings, and bus voltages are compared to acceptable 
system performance criteria. The planning studies are designed to cover each category of 
planning event from NERC TPL-001 Table 1 as follows:
P0 - Evaluation of normal System with no Contingency event is achieved with a 
thermal and voltage limit check of all ITS BES elements for each study case.
P1 - Evaluation of normal System performance for single Contingency events will be 
performed to demonstrate the capability of the System without allowing Non3.3.2. Simulate the expected automatic operation of existing and planned devices 
designed to provide steady state control of electrical system quantities when such 
devices impact the study area. These devices may include equipment such as phaseshifting transformers, load tap changing transformers, and switched capacitors and 
inductors. 
3.4. Those planning events in Table 1, that are expected to produce more severe System 
impacts on its portion of the BES, shall be identified and a list of those Contingencies to be 
evaluated for System performance in Requirement R3, Part 3.1 created. The rationale for those 
Contingencies selected for evaluation shall be available as supporting information. 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 21 of 42
Consequential load loss. In the unlikely event that Non-Consequential load loss 
is used to address BES performance the process described in TPL-001 Table 1 
footnote 12 and Attachment 1- Stakeholder process would be followed.
P1.1 – Evaluation of loss of generation event is performed using a series of base cases 
where key individual generator units2 are modeled off-line, and the remaining 
SBAA generation is re-dispatched to meet SBAA load for each of these generator 
off-line contingency (N-G) cases. A list of the key individual generators is 
provided in the study documentation. The required re-dispatch is based on 
expected SBAA dispatch order and is performed only to balance SBAA
generation with SBAA load, losses and interchange while maintaining appropriate 
spinning reserves and keeping the analysis’ swing machine within its limits.
P1.2 – The simulation software has an automated tool which outages each Transmission
circuit branch in the system model one branch at a time. Therefore a list of 
Contingencies is not required since all possible ITS Contingencies are evaluated. 
P1.3 – Two-winding transformers are a subset of P1.2 branches. Any three-winding 
transformers in the ITS receive a special review requiring SME Contingency
evaluations.
P1.4 – Shunt devices which are expected to have a significant impact on the BES are 
identified by SMEs and modeled with a low impedance branch connecting a 
dedicated shunt bus to the network model bus. This low impedance branch 
modeling method results in analysis of shunt devices as a subset of P1.2. A list 
of shunt devices modeled with low impedance connecting branches is provided 
in the study documentation.
P1.5 – Not applicable. In the ITS, HVDC lines are not currently installed and no HVDC 
lines outside of the ITS have been identified as affecting the ITS.
P2.1 – For steady state post-event analysis, this category of event is analyzed as a 
subset of the P1.2 analysis. In limited circumstances, if Non-Consequential Load 
Loss is used to address BES performance, the process described in TPL-001
Table 1 footnote 12 and Attachment 1- Stakeholder process will be followed.
P2.2 – Bus section faults are modeled and analyzed based on specific substation bus 
configurations to provide for the expected operation of system protective devices, 
including bus differential schemes, due to a single event. The EHV and HV BES 
levels are evaluated separately consistent with Table 1 performance criteria. A 
list of bus section faults modeled is provided in the study documentation.
• Substations with multiple straight bus sections have each bus in the ITS
modeled discreetly as separate bus nodes simulating Bus-tie breakers. 
Contingencies are performed to simulate each bus section’s bus differential 
relay operation.
• Substations with a ring bus configuration are typically modeled in base cases 
as a single node. Detailed substation models are built allowing contingencies 
to be performed simulating each bus section’s line relay operation which 
opens the ring for evaluation.
• Substations with a breaker and ½ configuration are modeled in most base
cases as a single node. Contingency evaluations of bus section outages are 
not routinely studied since in initial design these substations are planned to 
allow a main bus out for maintenance. Individual bay section outages 
resulting in a line open at the substation are evaluated as part of the P2.1 
review.
2 For combined cycle units individual unit contingencies include the full CT + ST outage.

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 22 of 42
P2.3 – Internal breaker faults (non-Bus-tie Breaker) are simulated by modeling back-up 
breaker operation on either side of the failed breaker. The EHV and HV BES 
levels are evaluated separately consistent with Table 1 performance criteria. A 
list of non-bus-tie internal breaker faults modeled is provided in the study 
documentation.
P2.4 - Internal breaker faults on Bus-tie breakers are simulated by opening all breakers 
on the buses on either side of the Bus-tie. A list of bus-tie internal breaker faults 
modeled is provided in the study documentation.
P3 – Individual N-G cases developed for P1.1 category (generator outage) events are 
the starting point cases for subsequent single Contingency P3 event studies. The 
re-dispatch required as a result of the assumed generator outage is not 
performed as a system adjustment for the purpose of addressing System issues 
resulting from the individual generating unit assumed to be off-line. The system 
adjustment philosophy is described at the end of this section. In limited 
circumstances, if Non-Consequential load loss is used to address BES 
performance, the process described in TPL-001 Table 1 footnote 12 and 
Attachment 1- Stakeholder process will be followed.
P3.1 - The loss of a P3.1 second generator (N-2G) is generally simulated using the 
PSS/E contingency analysis feature as the loss a generator step up (GSU) 
transformer branch. This occurs automatically since the GSU is modeled 
explicitly. Combined Cycle (CC) units are generally connected to the System 
though a single branch and this branch outage in the contingency analysis 
simulates the total loss of the CC. In addition, SME-selected N-2G simulations
are also performed to evaluate the P3.1 loss of generator event.
P3.2 – P3.4 - Evaluated in the same manner as P1.2 - P1.4 except with the P3 “generator 
off-line contingency” cases.
P3.5 - Not applicable as HVDC lines are not currently installed in the ITS and no HVDC 
lines outside of the ITS have been identified as affecting the ITS. 
P4 – Stuck breaker event analysis, in the post-fault clearing steady state results in the 
same evaluation as a P2.3 internal breaker failure event.
P4.1- P4.5 – For steady state this event is the same as P2.3.
P4.6 – For steady state this event is the same as P2.4.
P5 – The non-redundant relay schemes are evaluated by simulating the event as 
described by the Protection and Controls Department as a result of CAPE 
simulation results.
P6 - System adjustments, as described later in this section, made following the initial 
condition event in preparation for the P6 event are noted in study results. 
P6.1 – P6.3 – The PSS/E simulation software contingency enumeration feature is used to 
rank all possible ITS two branch-offline Contingency combinations. The program 
then solves cases for branch pairs in ranked order based on the defined success 
cut-off criteria. Shunt devices are modeled and outages simulated as described 
in P1.4. 
P6.4 - Not applicable as HVDC lines are not currently installed in the ITS and no HVDC 
lines outside of the ITS have been identified as affecting the ITS. 
P7.1- Outages of two Transmission circuits that share a common tower for greater than 
one mile are simulated with SME individual contingency files. A list of common 
tower loss events is provided in the study documentation.
P7.2 - Not applicable as HVDC lines are not currently installed in the ITS and no HVDC 
lines outside of the ITS have been identified as affecting the ITS.

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 23 of 42
The following two sections detail the use of the terms “system adjustments” and “operating 
guide” in study methods and documentation.
System Adjustments for steady state studies
The concept of a system adjustment is referred to in performance category P3 and P6 
requirements of the TPL-001 standard. Typically, the standard is referring to an adjustment 
during an undefined time period between unrelated contingencies of a multi-Contingency
event. The standard allows for system operators to make system adjustments following the 
initial Contingency event to be prepared for a subsequent Contingency event.
For P3 category initial conditions, following loss of a generator unit, system adjustments may
include Transmission switching and allowable generation dispatch adjustments in 
preparation for an additional P3 contingency event.
For P6 category initial conditions, following the loss of the first Transmission element, system 
adjustment may include Transmission switching and allowable generation dispatch 
adjustments in preparation for an additional P6 contingency event the outage of the next 
(second) element. 
Extreme Event analysis under R3.2 will require analysis of the system performance 
assuming system adjustments were not made following the initial P3 or P6 event and prior 
to the P3 or P6 second contingency event. The following are not classified as system 
adjustments:
• For P3, the goal of expected system re-dispatch, when generation is lost due to 
contingency, is to maintain the load/generation balance and is not made to favorably 
prepare the system for a subsequent event. Therefore, this re-dispatch is not 
classified as an intentional system adjustment.
• Other adjustments which occur in a simulation to model automatic equipment 
operation – voltage regulator operation, SVC control operation, or switching of shunt 
reactive devices (based on voltage set points) occurring as designed – are not 
classified as an intentional system adjustment.
Operating Guides
An operating guide is an action performed as a post-contingency Corrective Action to 
alleviate a thermally overloaded Facility or a Facility with a voltage constraint. Those guides 
meet the following criteria and must be performed within a time duration such that Facility 
designed maximum operating temperatures are not exceeded.
• Generation dispatch performed to address specific post-contingency voltage or 
thermal performance requirements is limited to fast start generation (< 15 minutes) or 
the ramp rate of specific generation. Where dispatch is used as an operating guide,
alternatives are evaluated to determine whether the operating guide relies on a single 
generator, or if similar acceptable post-contingency system results could be achieved 
with other options allowed by the Standard. In general, operating guides relying upon 
a redispatch of a single generator option are avoided.
• Transmission configuration changes such as operator controlled switching actions, 
load transfers, etc. which are performed manually at an operator’s direction to 
address specific post-contingency voltage or thermal performance requirements must 
be able to be performed within a time period such that the Facility does not exceed 
its designed maximum operating temperature. The amount of time available for post-

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 24 of 42
Contingency operator initiated remedial actions is determined based on the preContingency and post-Contingency Facility loading levels. These two loading levels 
are inputs to a short-term current carrying capability assessment which estimates the 
amount of time required for a conductor to reach its rated operating temperature postContingency based on its pre-Contingency loading level. Typically, 15 minutes or 
more are desired when considering post-Contingency remedial actions.
The PC/TP will coordinate with adjacent system PC/TPs to obtain a list of contingencies on 
their systems which they have observed may potentially result in reliability impacts on the ITS. 
These contingencies will be evaluated in the same manner as those events identified in R3.4.
The PC/TP will monitor ITS planning event impacts on Facilities in the adjacent Systems for 
potential unacceptable performance during R3.1 and R3.2 studies. ITS Contingencies 
resulting in potential reliability impacts on adjacent PC/TP facilities will be summarized and 
provided to those adjacent entities during the annual planning process. 
Table 1 Extreme Events evaluations are divided into three categories:
1. Planning Events that were mitigated with specific system adjustments should be 
evaluated assuming that the system adjustment has not occurred in the planned 
timeframe. 
2. Local area events impacting multiple generation or Transmission facilities.
3. Wide area events impacting generation at two separate stations. 
The list of specific contingencies expected to produce more severe impacts will be simulated 
to cover these Extreme Events. These contingencies will be included in the Planning 
Assessment as well as the rationale used to identify the contingencies. A study would then be 
performed under R3.2.
3.4.1. The Planning Coordinator and Transmission Planner shall coordinate with adjacent 
Planning Coordinators and Transmission Planners to ensure that Contingencies on adjacent 
Systems which may impact their Systems are included in the Contingency list.
3.5. Those extreme events in Table 1 that are expected to produce more severe System impacts 
shall be identified and a list created of those events to be evaluated in Requirement R3, Part
3.2. The rationale for those Contingencies selected for evaluation shall be available as 
supporting information. If the analysis concludes there is Cascading caused by the occurrence 
of extreme events, an evaluation of possible actions designed to reduce the likelihood or 
mitigate the consequences and adverse impacts of the event(s) shall be conducted. 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 25 of 42
4.0 R4 – Stability Studies
4.1.1 For normally cleared, three-phase faults (P1), units will not be allowed to pull out of 
synchronism or trip on voltage relay protection. If a unit is determined to pull out of synchronism 
or trip on voltage relay protection, then a solution to the problem will be included in the stability 
CAP.
4.1.2 When generating units become unstable for Planning Events P2 – P7, the apparent 
impedance swings will be monitored using the generic line relaying model of PSS/E. 
Impedance swings into the Transmission system which are predicted to trip Transmission
system elements other than the generating unit and its directly connected facilities, indicate an 
unacceptable system performance. If this occurs, a solution will be included in the stability 
portion of the CAP.
4.1.3 The damping of power oscillations, for planning events P1-P7, will be monitored in the 
stability simulations. Acceptable damping range is considered to be 3% or greater.
Studies will be performed to assess the impact of extreme events. See section 3.2 for extreme 
event selection criteria and modeling.
R4. For the Stability portion of the Planning Assessment, as described in Requirement R2, Parts 2.4 and 
2.5, each Transmission Planner and Planning Coordinator shall perform the Contingency analyses listed 
in Table 1. The studies shall be based on computer simulation models using data provided in 
Requirement R1. 
4.1. Studies shall be performed for planning events to determine whether the BES meets the 
performance requirements in Table 1 based on the Contingency list created in Requirement R4, 
Part 4.4. 
4.1.1. For planning event P1: No generating unit shall pull out of synchronism. A 
generator being disconnected from the System by fault clearing action or by a 
Remedial Action Scheme is not considered pulling out of synchronism. 
4.1.2. For planning events P2 through P7: When a generator pulls out of synchronism in 
the simulations, the resulting apparent impedance swings shall not result in the 
tripping of any Transmission system elements other than the generating unit and its 
directly connected Facilities. 
4.1.3. For planning events P1 through P7: Power oscillations shall exhibit acceptable 
damping as established by the Planning Coordinator and Transmission Planner. 
4.2. Studies shall be performed to assess the impact of the extreme events which are identified 
by the list created in Requirement R4, Part 4.5. If the analysis concludes there is Cascading
caused by the occurrence of extreme events, an evaluation of possible actions designed to
reduce the likelihood or mitigate the consequences of the event (s) shall be conducted.

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 26 of 42
4.3.1 – In all stability simulations remove all elements that the protection system and other 
automatic controls are expected to disconnect without operator intervention. Where highspeed reclosing is used, unsuccessful reclosing will be simulated. Successful high-speed 
reclosing is typically not simulated as, compared to unsuccessful high-speed reclosing, 
successful high-speed reclosing is expected to result in the same or less adverse results.
Generators will be tripped in the simulations when GSU high side voltages are outside the 
generator’s known or assumed ride through capability limits.
4.3.2 - The expected automatic operation of existing and planned devices designed to provide 
dynamic control of electrical system quantities will be simulated when such devices impact the 
study area. Most of the generator controls will automatically be included in the simulations. 
A list of contingencies which are expected to produce more severe system impacts for planning 
events will be created for evaluation in the stability studies. The list of contingencies is
designed to cover each category of planning events from Table 1 as follows:
4.3. Contingency analyses for Requirement R4, Parts 4.1 and 4.2 shall: 
4.3.1. Simulate the removal of all elements that the Protection System and other 
automatic controls are expected to disconnect for each Contingency without operator 
intervention. The analyses shall include the impact of subsequent: 
4.3.1.1. Successful high speed (less than one second) reclosing and 
unsuccessful high speed reclosing into a Fault where high speed reclosing is 
utilized. 
4.3.1.2. Tripping of generators where simulations show generator bus voltages 
or high side of the GSU voltages are less than known or assumed generator low 
voltage ride through capability. Include in the assessment any assumptions 
made. 
4.3.1.3. Tripping of Transmission lines and transformers where transient swings 
cause Protection System operation based on generic or actual relay models. 
4.4. Those planning events in Table 1 that are expected to produce more severe System impacts 
on its portion of the BES, shall be identified, and a list created of those Contingencies to be 
evaluated in Requirement R4, Part 4.1. The rationale for those Contingencies selected for 
evaluation shall be available as supporting information. 
4.4.1. Each Planning Coordinator and Transmission Planner shall coordinate with adjacent 
Planning Coordinators and Transmission Planners to ensure that Contingencies on adjacent 
Systems which may impact their Systems are included in the Contingency list. 
4.3. Contingency analyses for Requirement R4, Parts 4.1 and 4.2 shall: 
4.3.2. Simulate the expected automatic operation of existing and planned devices 
designed to provide dynamic control of electrical system quantities when such devices 
impact the study area. These devices may include equipment such as generation 
exciter control and power system stabilizers, static var compensators, power flow 
controllers, and DC Transmission controllers.

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 27 of 42
P0 – Not applicable to stability
P1.1 – P1.4: A study is conducted which applies a normally-cleared, three-phase 
fault on every line and transformer in the ITS. These simulations will result in 
more severe system impacts than faults on generators and shunt reactive 
devices. Faults on generators will not be as severe because fault clearing will 
result in tripping a unit which is better for stability. Faults on shunt devices 
will also not be as severe because tripping a shunt device does not result in 
weakening the System as compared to tripping Transmission lines.
P1.5 – Not applicable as HVDC lines are not currently installed in the ITS and no 
HVDC lines outside of the ITS have been identified as affecting the ITS.
P2.1 –Opening a line end without a fault will never cause a stability concern that has 
not already been revealed by faults on the line, as assessed under P1. 
P2.2 – P2.4: Planning events P2.2, P2.3, and P2.4 require single line to ground faults 
to be applied to bus sections or internal to breakers. These will always be 
less severe than a three-phase fault which will be covered by the extreme 
events specified in Table 1 Stability events 2.d and 2.e. When the threephase faults in the extreme events result in instability, a solution may be 
included in the CAP. If situations should occur where the CAP is not used to 
address three-phase faults which resulted in instability, then the single line to
ground fault will be investigated and appropriate corrective action included as 
needed.
P3 – The initial system condition of a generator out is generally not a stability 
concern because less generation is better for angular stability. A generator 
out is only a potential stability concern for peak load levels in FIDVR prone 
areas. 
P4 – Planning events P4.1 through P4.6 require single line to ground faults to be 
applied to generators, Transmission circuits, transformers, shunt devices, and 
bus sections with delayed clearing due to a stuck breaker. These will always 
be less severe than a three-phase fault which will be covered by extreme 
events specified in Table 1 Stability events 2.a through 2e. When the threephase faults in the extreme events result in instability, a solution will generally 
be included in the CAP. If situations should occur where the CAP is not used 
to address three-phase faults which resulted in instability, then the single line 
to ground fault will be investigated and appropriate corrective action included 
as needed.
P5 – Planning events P5.1 through P5.5 require single-line-to-ground faults to be 
applied to generators, Transmission circuits, transformers, shunt devices, and 
bus sections with delayed clearing due to a relay failure. Single line to ground
faults will be less severe than a three-phase fault which will be covered by 
R4.5 extreme events specified in Table 1 Stability events 2.a through 2e.
When the three-phase faults evaluated in the R4.5 extreme events result in 
instability, a solution will generally be included in the CAP. If situations should 
occur where the CAP is not used to address three-phase faults which resulted 
in instability, then the single line to ground fault will be investigated and 
appropriate corrective action included as needed.
P6.1- P6.3: Studies will be performed with a Transmission element out of service at 
generating plants on the system. Then a three-phase, normally-cleared fault 
will be studied on another element at the generating plant. If the generators 
will not be stable for this contingency, then a system adjustment or a CAP 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 28 of 42
project will be implemented to make sure that the generation will remain stable 
for the Contingency. 
P6.4 - Not applicable as HVDC lines are not currently installed in the ITS and no 
HVDC lines outside of the ITS have been identified as affecting the ITS.
P7.1 - Single-line-to-ground faults will be simulated on two Transmission circuits at 
a generating plant that share a common tower for greater than one mile. The 
circuits to be studied will be ones at generating plants which would have more 
impact on stability. 
P7.2 - Not applicable as HVDC lines are not currently utilized in the ITS and no HVDC 
lines outside of the ITS have been identified as affecting the ITS. 
System Adjustments for Stability Studies:
Typically, the only P3 or P6 system adjustment, used in stability studies is dispatching 
down generation to maintain stability for the next contingency. The adjustments are 
given to Operations as stability limits. These adjustments are ones that can be made 
within 30 minutes. These issues are generally found for off-peak conditions where 
generation is available to make up for the generation reductions. Note that such System 
Adjustments to dispatch down generation for stability studies as described above should 
not be considered for nuclear units.
4.4.1 - If any dynamic impacts are found on adjacent systems, the Contingency producing the 
impacts will be communicated to the Planning Coordinator/Transmission Planner (PC/TP) for 
that system so they can study the impact to their system. Also, the ITS PC/TP will coordinate 
with adjacent system PC/TPs to obtain a list of contingencies on their System which they have 
observed may potentially result in dynamic impacts on the ITS. 
A list of contingencies which are expected to produce more severe system impacts for extreme 
events will be created for evaluation in the stability studies. Table 1 Extreme Events 
evaluations are divided into two categories:
1. Planning events that were mitigated using specific system adjustments (resulting in
temporary stability limits). Those adjustments should be assumed not to have occurred. 
Studies will be made of the consequences of having the next three-phase fault with 
normal clearing before the system adjustments are made.
2. Three-phase faults with delayed clearing due to a stuck breaker or a relay failure. These 
contingencies will be applied to generators, Transmission circuits, transformers, shunt 
devices, and bus sections at or near generating plants. These will have the most severe 
impact to the stability of the system.
If the analysis concludes there is Cascading caused by the occurrence of extreme events, an 
evaluation of possible actions designed to reduce the likelihood or mitigate the consequences 
of the event(s) shall be conducted.
4.5. Those extreme events in Table 1 that are expected to produce more severe System impacts 
shall be identified and a list created of those events to be evaluated in Requirement R4, Part 
4.2. The rationale for those Contingencies selected for evaluation shall be available as 
supporting information. 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 29 of 42
For some Contingencies, primarily three-phase faults with delayed clearing when certain 
criteria are met, it may be acceptable for generator units to trip with out-of-step protection. If 
such is the case, then analysis of the same Contingency with a single-line-to ground fault will 
be performed and noted in the CAP. 
5.0 R5 – Voltage Evaluation Criteria
The evaluation of power flow steady state voltages and transient voltages (dynamic voltages) 
are the normal means by which satisfactory voltage performance of the System is determined. 
System bus voltages must not only be evaluated for normal conditions but also for postContingency conditions. System conditions falling within the following performance 
guidelines will be deemed satisfactory unless tighter guidelines have been identified to 
accommodate special requirements, including but not limited to governmental regulations, 
highly voltage-sensitive customer operations, or machine stability limitations.
5.1 Acceptable Steady State Transmission Voltage Level Ranges
Table 5.1 A and related notes provide acceptable performance voltage ranges for the preContingency and post-Contingency bus voltage for TPL-001 analysis. These voltage ranges
are typically used for all planning analyses as a starting point but select studies may utilize 
tighter limits based on the study purpose. 
 Table 5.1 A
Planning 
Event
500 kV 230 kV through 100 kV
Acceptable Voltage Range Acceptable Voltage Range
P0 -
No Contingency
Generator High-side Bus(1) 0.98 - 1.075(2) 0.95 - 1.05(2)
Switching Station 0.98 - 1.075 0.95 - 1.05
Load Serving Bus 0.98 - 1.075 0.95 - 1.05
P1 - P2
Single Contingency
Generator High-side Bus(1) 0.98 - 1.075(2) 0.95 - 1.05(2)
Switching Station 0.97 - 1.075 0.92 - 1.05
Load Serving Bus(3) 0.97 - 1.075 0.92 - 1.05
P3 -
Multiple 
Contingency
Generator High-side Bus(1) 0.98 - 1.075(2) 0.95 - 1.05(2)
Switching Station 0.97 - 1.075 0.90 - 1.05
R5. Each Transmission Planner and Planning Coordinator shall have criteria for acceptable System steady 
state voltage limits, post-Contingency voltage deviations, and the transient voltage response for its System. 
For transient voltage response, the criteria shall at a minimum, specify a low voltage level and a maximum 
length of time that transient voltages may remain below that level. 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 30 of 42
Load Serving Bus(3) 0.97 - 1.075 0.90 - 1.05
P4 - P5 Multiple 
Contingency
Generator High-side Bus(1) 0.98 - 1.075(2) 0.95 - 1.05(2)
Switching Station 0.97 - 1.075 0.90 - 1.05
Load Serving Bus(3) 0.97 - 1.075 0.90 - 1.05
P6 - P7 Multiple 
Contingency
Generator High-side Bus(1) 0.98 - 1.075(2) 0.95 - 1.05(2)
Switching Station 0.97 - 1.075 0.90 - 1.05
Load Serving Bus(3) 0.97 - 1.075 0.90 - 1.05
Footnotes:
1) For the purpose of voltage level criteria, the generator transmission high side bus should be treated like a load serving bus
for the following conditions:
a. If no units at a plant are turned on in normal system (no planning contingency in effect) power flow evaluation
b. If for single unit plants, for a normal system planning contingency that involves the outage of the same 
aforementioned unit
c. If a plant has been deemed exempt from the NERC Planning Standards requirement of having to hold a voltage 
schedule
d. For low MVA plants (<75 MVA aggregate generation or individual units < 20 MVA) where a plant is defined 
as one or more units that are on-line in the power flow and are interconnected to the same Transmission 
bus.
e. Exceptions may be considered for plants above 75 MVA that cannot hold voltage schedule for some standard 
planning contingencies, if:
i. Voltage stability margins are above the minimum 5% threshold and
ii. Power flow analysis indicates that there are no other voltage constraints at any load serving buses
2) See discussion of Generator terminal bus voltage limits in Section 5.3. 
3) Stations which become radial as a result of the planning event are screened against the same criteria as the postContingency networked buses, but if bus voltage remains above the P0 minimum the voltage is acceptable. 
5.2 Voltage Deviation
Voltage deviation is defined as the voltage difference between pre-contingency/pre-fault and 
post-contingency/post-fault voltages. 
• In the steady state, post-contingency voltage deviations must not result in bus voltages 
outside the Acceptable Voltage Range listed in Table 5.1A. 
• When capacitor banks are manually switched in or out, the step change in voltage 
should be no greater than +/- 2.5% under N-0 conditions, and no greater than +/- 6% 
under Contingency.
• Voltage deviations in transient conditions represent impacts to System stability and/or 
power quality. 
o Power quality limits are documented in ITS Operating Procedure 26 (ITS Voltage 
Fluctuation Guideline). Impacts to power quality are typically limited to 
distribution systems and not applicable to TPL-001 Requirement R5.
o As it relates to System stability, voltage deviation assessments fall within the 
larger voltage-related criteria documented in sections 5.6 and 6. 
5.3 Generator Terminal Bus Voltage Levels
The voltage at the generator terminal buses should not exceed the maximum or fall below the 
minimum allowable voltage limits for any steady state conditions, including both system intact 
and planning event conditions. It is expected that the generator owner will specify equipment 
such that the voltage limit range for a generator low-side bus is 0.95 – 1.05 p.u. However, as 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 31 of 42
determined on a case by case basis, reduced ranges may be required. Generator bus voltages 
falling below the minimum allowable bus voltage will result in tripping of the unit in the study 
per R3.3.1.1 and R4.3.1.2.
5.4 Nuclear Plant Off-Site Source Voltages
NERC NUC-001 requires “Nuclear Plant Generator Operators and Transmission Entities to 
coordinate for the purpose of ensuring nuclear plant safe operation and shut down”. The 
standard further requires “Agreements” to be established which include Nuclear Plant Interface 
Requirements (NPIRs). The current NPIRs specify acceptable steady state Transmission bus 
voltage ranges for unit shut-down conditions assuming one unit is undergoing a design basis 
accident (e.g. loss of cooling event) plus an unrelated worst case generation or Transmission
Contingency. 
5.5 Extreme Event Steady State Transmission Voltage Level Ranges and Deviation
Extreme event contingencies are screened against the same criteria as the post-Contingency 
P6 and P7 events. These events are then further evaluated to ensure that no steady state 
voltage collapse is identified.
5.6 Transient (Dynamic) Voltage Response
Summer Peak Demand load levels: For normally-cleared faults (P1-P3), voltages must 
recover above 80% of the nominal voltage within 2 seconds for networked buses, and no units 
should trip due to low voltage. For lower probability faults, such as three-phase faults with 
delayed clearing due to a stuck breaker or a protective relay failure (P4-P7), the following 
should be satisfied:
(1) All networked Transmission buses should recover to above 80% of the nominal
voltage within 4 seconds of the initial fault; and
(2) For the north Georgia area, the East Critical Unit (ECU) point value of units tripped 
should not exceed the largest ECU point value of the most valuable unit in north 
Georgia; and 
(3) All networked Transmission buses should recover to normal voltages within a 
reasonable time in the dynamic analysis. 
Off-Peak load levels: For normally cleared faults (P1-P3), the transient voltage dip at any load 
bus should not remain below 80% of nominal voltage for more than 40 cycles. This only applies 
to Off-Peak load levels with a standard load model (ZIP) used for loads.

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 32 of 42
6.0 R6 – System Instability Evaluation Criteria
Steady State: 
When performing planning event (or extreme event) assessments, an additional analysis may 
be needed to simulate potential line opening due to line overloads. If the planning event (or 
extreme event) results in lines loaded above their relay loadability limits, or voltage instability 
as indicated by non-convergent study cases, then additional steady state analysis is performed 
to test for potential cascading.
The check for potential cascading Transmission outages assumes no system operator initiated 
remedial action load shed occurs. 
The steady state analysis test for Cascading Transmission Outages is evaluated as follows:
1. For the planning events (or extreme events) which predict significant impacts as 
described above, the initiating NERC TPL-001 event is modeled, and results are 
reviewed to determine if at least one Transmission Facility is loaded above its rating. 
Any post-Contingency loading which exceeds the relay loadability limit of the Facility is 
simulated as opening. 
2. The resulting post-Contingency case is evaluated to determine if any additional relay 
loadability limits have been exceeded. If so, these lines are also opened as a result of 
relay operation. This step will be repeated until no lines open due to relay loadability or 
ten (10) lines have been opened without resolving thermal limitations.
3. Once all facilities are within their relay loadability limits, PSS/E’s remedial action activity 
is initiated to shed load and adjust capacitors to resolve line overloads (based on 
Summer Rate B) or voltages below 0.90 per unit after a steady state power flow solution 
is achieved. Upon completion of the remedial action load shed, an evaluation of the 
number of Transmission facilities opened in the simulation and the extent of the area 
impacted is conducted.
For the purpose of this steady state assessment, the result will be considered potentially 
cascading if:
• More than five facilities are eventually simulated as opening successively following the 
initiating event and prior to a post-Contingency case solution, or
• The resulting overloaded facilities occur outside of the Southern Reliability area, or
• The study case solution will not converge (solve) due to system conditions such as 
voltage collapse.
Stability: In addition to the steady state analysis, voltage stability and system angular stability
analyses are also conducted. 
• Voltage stability analysis is made using P-V curve techniques. Voltage instability is 
defined as the knee of the P-V curve. The system is planned such that it will operate 
with 5% or greater margin from the voltage instability point for single element out 
Contingencies (P1-P2) and for unit out with single element out Contingencies (P3). For 
R6. Each Transmission Planner and Planning Coordinator shall define and document, within their 
Planning Assessment, the criteria or methodology used in the analysis to identify System instability for 
conditions such as Cascading, voltage instability, or uncontrolled islanding. 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 33 of 42
lower probability Contingencies (P4-P7), voltage stability margins should be 2.5% or 
greater from the voltage instability point.
• All angular stability analyses which include a generic line relay model will determine
when impedance swings impact line relaying. For impedance swings into the Zone 1 
protection defined by the generic model, it is assumed line relaying will trip the 
Transmission line. Tripping of three or more Transmission lines in this manner (not 
including the faulted element) defines cascading for stability analyses. When cascading 
is detected, a solution will be included in the CAP. If the simulation results in multiple 
lines being tripped such that an electrical island is created, then this will be considered 
uncontrolled islanding and a solution will be added to the CAP. 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 34 of 42
7.0 R7 – Planning Coordination / Transmission Planning Roles and Responsibilities
For affiliated operating companies in the SBAA including GPC, SCS Transmission Planning 
performs the Planning Coordinator and Transmission Planner (PC/TPs) responsibilities for all 
TPL-001 requirements except those related to short circuit and breaker duty analysis. PC/TP 
responsibilities include development of study cases, performing planning studies and summary 
assessments based on coordinated annual 10-year studies, and coordination of any required 
CAP projects with the respective Transmission Owners (affiliated and also non-affiliated
Georgia ITS Participants). 
SCST Transmission performs the responsibilities of Planning Coordinator for MEAG per 
Georgia Power’s relationship with MEAG as their contractor for services. 
SCST Transmission performs the responsibilities of Planning Coordinator for City of Dalton per 
Georgia Power’s relationship with Dalton Utilities as their Agent. 
GTC performs the PC/TP responsibilities for all TPL-001 requirements. This is coordinated 
with SCS PC/TP responsibilities through joint ITS study efforts and a separate planning 
services agreement between GTC and GPC.
Short circuit and breaker duty requirements are performed by SCST and OPCo Protection and 
Control groups. The short circuit requirements of TPL-001 R1, R2.3, R2.6, R2.8, R7 and R8 
are provided in “Guidelines for System Modeling and Short Circuit Assessment of the Georgia 
Integrated Transmission System”.
R7. Each Planning Coordinator, in conjunction with each of its Transmission Planners, shall determine 
and identify each entity’s individual and joint responsibilities for performing the required studies for 
the Planning Assessment. 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 35 of 42
8.0 R8 – Planning Assessment Distribution
Studies performed as the basis of the Annual Planning Assessments are generally completed 
by December 31st of each calendar year. The complete documentation and final Annual 
Planning Assessments are generally completed by the end of the 1st quarter of each calendar 
year based on planning studies of the prior year. 
• Each ITS Participant will provide its most recent annual Planning Assessment with a 
summary of the CAP within 90 days of completing the assessment to adjacent PC/TPs.
Other entities with a valid reliability related need may make a written request through the 
appropriate OASIS site to be provided the most recent Planning Assessment. Within 30 days 
of this written request, the appropriate entity will provide its most recent annual Planning 
Assessment with a summary of the CAP.
In either case, those receiving Planning Assessments will be required to meet Critical Energy 
Infrastructure Information (CEII) requirements, which can be accessed through the appropriate
OASIS website. 
The appropriate entity will provide a documented response within 90 days of receipt of 
documented comments from recipients of its Planning Assessment consistent with TPL-001 
R8. 
R8. Each Planning Coordinator and Transmission Planner shall distribute its Planning Assessment results
to adjacent Planning Coordinators and adjacent Transmission Planners within 90 calendar days of 
completing its Planning Assessment, and to any functional entity that has a reliability related need and 
submits a written request for the information within 30 days of such a request.
8.1. If a recipient of the Planning Assessment results provides documented comments on the 
results, the respective Planning Coordinator or Transmission Planner shall provide a 
documented response to that recipient within 90 calendar days of receipt of those comments. 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 36 of 42
Appendix A
Guidelines For System Modeling and Short Circuit Assessment
for the
Georgia Integrated Transmission System
Issued:6/15/2015
ASSOCIATED NERC STANDARD(S):
TPL-001-4
IMPLEMENTATION:
Phase in of individual TPL-001-4 requirements will be based on the effective dates as defined 
in TPL-001-4. The implementation dates for the requirements applicable to short circuit portion 
are listed below. 
January 1, 2015 - R1 & R7 
January 1, 2016 - R2 & R8
PURPOSE: 
This guideline documents the study processes and requirements that form the basis for the Short 
Circuit Assessment covering the Near-Term (years 1-5) planning horizon to ensure consistency 
with the NERC reliability standard TPL-001-4. 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 37 of 42
Guideline
9.0 R1 – System Model Requirement
Southern Company Services Transmission’s (SCST) Protection & Control Applications
department maintains system modeling data in a form of CAPE database which is used to 
perform short circuit studies. This database is also referred as base case in this document. The 
database or base case is consistent with the requirements of NERC standard MOD-032i. 
The system modeling data includes:
1. Existing generation and transmission facilities based on the most recent as-built data 
provided by Generation Owner (GO) and Transmission Owner (TO). This data is updated 
on a continuous basis as needed to include ongoing system changes. 
 
2. The transmission system topology, including the most recent Corrective Action Plan 
(CAP) and other expected transmission improvements, for the Near-Term and LongTerm planning horizon is included in the model. The current forecast of generation 
expansion is also included. 
3. External system model provided by SERC Short Circuit Data Working Group and FRCC. 
Information such as load forecast, firm transmission service and interchange etc. are not 
modeled as they do not have impact on short circuit studies. 
R1. Each Transmission Planner and Planning Coordinator shall maintain System models within its 
respective area for performing the studies needed to complete its Planning Assessment. The models shall 
use data consistent with that provided in accordance with the MOD-010 and MOD-012 standards, 
supplemented by other sources as needed, including items represented in the Corrective Action Plan, 
and shall represent projected System conditions. This establishes Category P0 as the normal System 
condition in Table 1. 
1.1. System models shall represent: 
1.1.1. Existing Facilities 
1.1.2. Known outage(s) of generation or Transmission Facility(ies) with a duration of at 
least six months. 
1.1.3. New planned Facilities and changes to existing Facilities 
1.1.4. Real and reactive Load forecasts 
1.1.5. Known commitments for Firm Transmission Service and Interchange 
1.1.6. Resources (supply or demand side) required for Load 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 38 of 42
10.0 R2 – Annual Short Circuit Assessment and Corrective Action Plan
The short circuit portion of the Planning Assessment is prepared annually and references the 
applicable studies which have been performed. This portion of the assessment documents the 
assumptions and summarizes the results of the short circuit studies. The studies are used to 
develop recommendations such as replacement of breaker with higher interrupting capacity 
and operating procedures. The recommendations made are included in the Short Circuit CAP 
spreadsheet. 
The short circuit portion of the Planning Assessment for the Near-Term Transmission Planning 
Horizon is prepared annually and utilizes the applicable current or past studies which have 
been performed.
Short circuit studies are generally performed for a case in which the short circuit levels are at 
maximum, i.e., maximum generation, all lines in etc. The study is performed on a first year and 
last year base case in the Near-Term Planning Horizon effectively covering all years in NearTerm Planning Horizon. The study results are used to determine whether circuit breakers have 
interrupting capability for faults that they are expected to interrupt. 
Qualifying past studies will be used along with current studies for the short circuit assessment. 
When past studies are used, documentation will be included in the assessment showing that 
no material changes have occurred in the system which would affect the results of the study. 
Also, when past studies are more than five calendar years old, a technical rationale will be 
provided to show why the study is still valid.
R2. Each Transmission Planner and Planning Coordinator shall prepare an annual Planning Assessment of 
its portion of the BES. This Planning Assessment shall use current or qualified past studies (as indicated 
in Requirement R2, Part 2.6), document assumptions, and document summarized results of the steady 
state analyses, short circuit analyses, and Stability analyses.
2.3. The short circuit analysis portion of the Planning Assessment shall be conducted annually 
addressing the Near-Term Transmission Planning Horizon and can be supported by current or 
past studies as qualified in Requirement R2, Part 2.6. The analysis shall be used to determine 
whether circuit breakers have interrupting capability for Faults that they will be expected to 
interrupt using the System short circuit model with any planned generation and Transmission 
Facilities in service which could impact the study area.
2.6. Past studies may be used to support the Planning Assessment if they meet the following 
requirements: 
2.6.1. For steady state, short circuit, or Stability analysis: the study shall be five calendar 
years old or less, unless a technical rationale can be provided to demonstrate that the 
results of an older study are still valid. 
2.6.2. For steady state, short circuit, or Stability analysis: no material changes have 
occurred to the System represented in the study. Documentation to support the 
technical rationale for determining material changes shall be included. 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 39 of 42
A possible rationale for no material changes would be that there was no addition of 
transmission elements on the system or a quick study showing that the change in fault current 
at all transmission buses on the system is minimal compared to previous years.
The short circuit portion of the Planning Assessment is based on current and past studies which 
have been performed. These study results are used to determine whether circuit breakers 
have interrupting capability for faults that they are expected to interrupt. If it is determined that 
the short circuit current that is required to be interrupted by the breaker is higher than the 
breaker’s interrupting capability (such breakers are also known as overstressed breakers), the 
CAP is developed to rectify the problem. In most cases, the CAP will be to replace the 
overstressed breaker with higher capacity breaker but may also include an operating 
procedure. The recommendations made are included in the short circuit CAP spreadsheet. 
The spreadsheet contains the list of overstressed breakers and actions needed to achieve 
required system performance. 
Each year the entire CAP from the previous year is reevaluated based on any known or 
forecasted system changes (including modification or retirement of transmission or generation 
Facilities). 
11.0 R7 – SCST Protection & Control Applications roles and responsibilities
SCS Protection & Control Applications is responsible for all short circuit study related 
requirements of TPL-001-4. P&C Application’s responsibilities include development of base 
case, performing short circuit studies, summary assessments and coordination/development 
of any required CAP. The CAP will be communicated to SCST Transmission Planning to be 
included in the 10 year transmission expansion plan. 
R7. Each Planning Coordinator, in conjunction with each of its Transmission Planners, shall determine 
and identify each entity’s individual and joint responsibilities for performing the required studies for 
the Planning Assessment. 
2.8. For short circuit analysis, if the short circuit current interrupting duty on circuit breakers 
determined in Requirement R2, Part 2.3 exceeds their Equipment Rating, the Planning 
Assessment shall include a Corrective Action Plan to address the Equipment Rating constraints. 
The Corrective Action Plan shall: 
2.8.1. List System deficiencies and the associated actions needed to achieve required 
System performance. 
2.8.2. Be reviewed in subsequent annual Planning Assessments for continued validity 
and implementation status of identified System Facilities and Operating Procedures. 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 40 of 42
12.0 R8 – Short Circuit Assessment Distribution
SCST Protection & Control Applications will provide its most recent Short Circuit piece of 
Planning Assessment, also referred as Short Circuit Assessment, with a summary of the CAP 
within 90 days of completing the assessment to adjacent PC/TPs. Other entities with a valid 
reliability related request will be provided the most recent Short Circuit Assessment already 
provided to adjacent PC/TCs within 30 days of a request.
Those receiving Short Circuit Assessments will be required to meet Southern Company Critical 
Energy Infrastructure Information requirements. 
Dated records of Assessment transmittal to each appropriate entity:
• within 90 calendar days of completion of the annual Short Circuit Assessment or
• within 30 days of a request to provide the most recent Short Circuit Assessment
will be retained as evidence. The records will be maintained for a minimum of three calendar 
years prior to the current year.
SCST Protection & Control Applications will provide a documented response to address
documented comments from recipients of our Short Circuit Assessment under R8 within 90 
days of receipt of those comments. 
Dated records of comments from and responses to each appropriate entity within 90 calendar 
days of receipt of an Assessment comment will be retained as evidence. The records will be 
maintained for a minimum of three calendar years prior to the current year.
R8. Each Planning Coordinator and Transmission Planner shall distribute its Planning Assessment results 
to adjacent Planning Coordinators and adjacent Transmission Planners within 90 calendar days of 
completing its Planning Assessment, and to any functional entity that has a reliability related need and 
submits a written request for the information within 30 days of such a request.
8.1. If a recipient of the Planning Assessment results provides documented comments on the 
results, the respective Planning Coordinator or Transmission Planner shall provide a documented 
response to that recipient within 90 calendar days of receipt of those comments. 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 41 of 42
DOCUMENT CHANGE LOG:
Version # Date Description of Key Change
4.0 June 17, 2015 Complete rewrite to comply with TPL-001-4
5.0 December 11, 2020 Minor modifications to clarify requirements for 
TPL-001-4
6.0 December 02, 2021 Modifications to clarify requirements and 
methodology due to TPL-001-5

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
Page 42 of 42
12/9/2021 12/8/2021
12/8/2021 12/8/2021
12/9/2021 12/8/2021
12/8/2021 12/9/2021
I.T.S PLANNING PROCEDURE NO. 9
GUIDELINES FOR PLANNING 
TRANSMISSION SYSTEM FACILTY IMPROVEMENTS
FOR THE
GEORGIA INTEGRATED TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
I.T.S JOINT SUB-COMMITTEE FOR TRANSMISSION PLANNING
Jeremy Talley – DU / Date Will McDaniel – DU / Date
Chase Battaglio – GPC / Date Chris Weaver – DU / Date
Joe Sowell – GTC / Date Bob Casey – GTC / Date
Gary McAdam – MEAG / Date Ben Boucher – MEAG / Date

[B3]
BULK POWER TRANSFORMER
LOADING GUIDE

ITS OPERATING PROCEDURE NO. 22 
Bulk Power Transformer Loading Guide 
Effective Date: March 13, 2000 
 Revised Date: 
Purpose: 
These recommendations are intended to be used as a guide for loading bulk power 
transformers in the Georgia Integrated Transmission System (ITS). 
A bulk power transformer is defined as a power transformer having a low voltage side 
rating of 115kV or above. 
The power transformer loading criteria specified in this guide is intended for use in 
conjunction with a detailed computer analysis (such as PTLOAD). 
The bulk power transformer loading limitations recommended in this guide are primarily 
intended to be used in transmission planning system studies. 
This guide may be used by system operators provided that sufficient real time 
information is available to monitor a power transformer loaded beyond its nameplate 
rating during emergency or contingency situations. 
IEEE C57.91-1995 (IEEE Guide for Loading Mineral Oil Immersed Transformers) was 
used for the basis of this document. 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2
General: 
Loading a transformer beyond its nameplate rating involves some amount of risk. 
Risk areas include (from IEEE Std. C57.91-1995, section 4.1): 
- Evolution of free gas from insulation of winding and lead connectors 
- Mechanical wear effects which may increase with ratings over 100MVA 
- Reduced mechanical strength of both conductor and structural insulation 
- Permanent deformation of conductors, insulation materials, or structural parts 
- Leaking gaskets, loss of oil, and dielectric failure of bushings due to pressure buildup for currents above rating 
- Oil expansion due to top oil temperatures over 105 C may result in operation of the 
pressure relief device and the expulsion of oil 
- Voltage regulation through the transformer may increase significantly due to 
increased loading and possibly dropping power factor 
There are situations where the transformer may be operated above its nameplate rating 
for short periods of times without significantly affecting the life of the transformer 
winding insulation. 
IEEE C57.91-1995, (section 9.1) addresses four (4) types of loading. These types of 
loading are Normal Life Expectancy rating, Planned Loading Beyond Nameplate rating, 
Long time Emergency Loading, and Short time Emergency Loading. 
This guide addresses Normal Loading (Normal Life Expectancy Rating), Normal ReRated Loading (Planned Loading Beyond Nameplate rating ), and Contingency Loading
(Long time Emergency Loading) criteria, which are to be used for planning purposes. 
Additionally, the Emergency Loading (Short time Emergency Loading) criteria is 
addressed to assist system operator personnel. 
The following assumptions have been made: 
 The transformers are 65 C rise rated. 
 The temperature will vary cyclically during the day. 
 Individual load profile for each location will be used to determine ratings. 
 All cooling equipment, all temperature gauges and alarms are or will be maintained in 
good working order (any re-rating may require inspection of fans and pumps, 
calibration of temperature gauges, alarm point adjustment, or benchmark dissolved 
gas in oil analysis). 
This guide does not include or addresses the rating of other substation equipment (such 
as: switches, current transformers, bus conductors, power circuit breakers, line traps, 
relay settings, jumpers, bushings, etc.) which are an integral part of the substation and 
must be accounted for in planning studies. The manufacturer should be consulted for 
information regarding guidelines for recommended loading limits beyond nameplate 
(particularly if the date of manufacture is after 1975). 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

3
Recommendations: 
Normal Loading Criteria: 
The Normal loading rating should not exceed the temperature limits specified by the 
transformer manufacturer for normal life expectancy, and it is based on the 
manufacturer’s nameplate ratings. 
Normal insulation life expectancy with respect to winding Hot Spot temperature is set at 
110 C for continuous operation. Normal life expectancy can also be anticipated for a 
variable load with a maximum hot spot temperature of 120 C during any 24 hour period. 
The Normal Loading Criteria ratings should be used in transmission planning base case 
models. 
Normal Re-Rated Loading Criteria 
The Normal Re-Rated Loading Criteria consists of loading the transformer beyond its 
nameplate ratings while maintaining acceptable life expectancy. 
Re-rated values requested for transmission planning base case models will require a load 
profile for the base case and first contingency conditions in order to perform calculations. 
The calculation will be in effect for one year and must be re-submitted and re-evaluated 
annually. 
Re-rated loading may exceed the transformer nameplate rating as long as none of the 
following parameters are exceeded: 
 The load and ambient temperature will be cyclical daily. The average ambient 
temperature for a 24-hour period should not exceed 32 C (89.6 F). 
 The maximum load will not exceed 115% of top nameplate rating. 
 The top oil temperature shall not exceed 100 C. 
 The loss of winding insulation life shall not exceed 0.0254% (150,000h life) per 24 
hour period. This is based on the criteria that the winding hot spot temperature will 
not be maintained in the 120 – 130 C range for more than 4 hours daily. 
The Re-rated Loading Criteria rating may be used in transmission planning base case 
models, on isolated cases, with the limitations indicated above. 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

4
Contingency Loading Criteria: 
 The Contingency loading rating will be applied for abnormal system loading conditions
(contingencies), which may persist for some period of time. It is expected that such 
occurrences be rare. 
Contingency loading may exceed the transformer nameplate rating as long as none of the 
following parameters are exceeded: 
 The load and ambient temperature will be cyclical daily. The average ambient 
temperature for a 24-hour period should not exceed 32 C (89.6 F). 
 The maximum load will not exceed 130% of top nameplate rating. 
 The top oil temperature shall not exceed 110 C. 
 The loss of winding insulation life shall not exceed 0.0638% (150,000h life) per 24 
hour period. This is based on the criteria that the winding hot spot temperature will 
not be maintained in the 130 – 140 C range for more than 6 hours daily, and the 120 
- 130 C range for more than 4 hours daily or not to exceed 10 hours above 120 C. 
The winding hot spot temperature shall never exceed 140 C. 
The Contingency loading rating should be used in planning contingency models. 
Emergency Loading: 
Emergency loading is heavy loading brought about by the occurrence of one or more 
unlikely events that seriously disturb normal system loading. It is expected that this type 
of loading can be reduced to at least a Contingency loading within one (1) hour. 
Emergency loading may exceed the transformer nameplate rating as long as the following 
parameters are not exceeded: 
 The load and ambient temperature will be cyclical daily. The average ambient
temperature for a 24-hour period should not exceed 32 C (89.6 F). The system 
operator shall review actual temperature and pre-loading conditions for each specific 
situation. 
 The maximum load will not exceed 130% of top nameplate rating. 
 The average winding hot spot temperature shall never exceed 140 C. 
 The top oil temperature shall not exceed 110 C. 
 The loss of winding insulation life shall not exceed 0.1245% (150,000h life) per 24 
hour period. 
The Emergency Loading ratings should not be used by Transmission planners. 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

5
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

[C]
TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
OPERATIONS

[C1]
2024 SUMMER OPERATING STUDY

1
INTRODUCTION
The purpose of the Summer Operating Study (“SOS”) is to assist System Operations in 
preparing for operating conditions that could occur during the summer period and prepare 
the System Operators to deal with unplanned system events, including unexpected
outages, major equipment failures, and certain extreme events.
The SOS identifies thermal and voltage limitations on the Georgia Integrated 
Transmission System (ITS) and the Savannah area transmission network (SAV) during 
normal and/or contingency conditions for the expected peak load periods.
The SOS evaluation is performed in the spring. The output is summarized in a database 
that includes line name, relevant contingencies, relevant case study for worst violation, 
and solutions for remediation. Thermal loading limitations are listed in Section III and 
voltage limitations are listed in Section IV. System operating procedures are noted where 
they mitigate identified transmission system limitations.
The following Summer Base Cases were studied in 2024:
1. 2024 Summer Peak Load Cases
A set of 2024 summer base cases was created using a modified dispatch of the 
generating units that were expected to be available for summer 2024. 
The starting point for the study cases:
H = Shoulder (93% load)
S = Summer Peak (100% load)
T = Hot Weather (107% load)
Each S and H case has 4 versions:
NSEW = MW North to South MISO Transfer, MW FPL to Gulf Transfer
NSmaxEW = MW North to South MISO Transfer, MW FPL to Gulf 
Transfer
SNWE = MW South to North MISO Transfer, MW Gulf to FPL Transfer
SNmaxWE = MW South to North MISO Transfer, MW Gulf to FPL 
Transfer
Each version of case has two scenarios: 
Renewables On = Solar generation, Biomass generation, and Grid-Charging 
Batteries On (Solar generation remains off in H cases)
Renewables Off = All Solar generation, Biomass generation, and Grid-Charging 
Batteries Off
To simulate peaking hour hydro capacity in Georgia during drought conditions 
(worst-case scenario), Transmission Operations provides guidance on how the 
hydro units should be modeled for all Summer Base Cases. The result for 2024 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

2
was a list of 10 hydro units running at their minimum with the remainder of hydro 
units either off or motoring (still providing VAR support).
2. Generator Unit-Out Cases
Certain generator single-unit-out cases were created using H and S base cases 
(Hot Weather cases are not studied with additional units out). Additionally, certain 
multiple-unit-out cases were created for units that Transmission Operations has 
identified create a significant impact if offline jointly or units with possible common 
failure modes (such as a single equipment failure at West Point Dam). Specific 
unit-out cases are listed below.
3. West-East Flow Cases
Summer Peak and Shoulder West-East Flow cases were created to study the 
impact of high import levels into the state of Georgia from neighboring utilities from 
the West. Cases were created assuming an increase in generation from 
neighboring Alabama and Mississippi generation units while Georgia generation 
units were reduced to simulate similar conditions that have been seen in real-time 
operations scenarios during economic dispatch, maintenance and other 
unexpected outages. Only SNWE and SNmaxWE scenarios were used for building 
these cases, as NSEW and NSmaxEW biased cases would be antagonistic.
Alabama:
o Area Max
o Central AL, East AL, North AL, Northeast AL, South AL, West AL
Georgia:
o Bowen Units 1-4 on at minimum output, except for the S Renewables Off case 
as fully on
o Rocky Mountain offline
o Vogtle 3 & 4 at minimum output
o Gaston 1-4 at minimum output for Renewables Off cases
o Gaston 1-4 at maximum output for Renewables On cases
o Lindsay Hill running economically
o Hydro modeled at minimum flow
o Renewables On and Off still observed
o Warthen offline
o McIntosh 1-8 at minimum output for S cases
o McIntosh 1-5 at minimum output for H cases
o McDonough 3 offline
o Tenaska at minimum output for Renewable Off cases
o Tenaska at maximum output for Renewable On cases
o Talbot offline
o McManus offline
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

3
4. Extreme Event Cases
Summer Peak and Shoulder cases were created to study certain low-probability 
events, including possible bus tie breaker failures, high profile bus differentials, 
and loss of major system corridors. Only NSEW and SNWE cases were used to 
build the Extreme Event cases. Max flow cases are deemed unrealistic when 
paired with an Extreme Event.
All of these cases were economically dispatched using Southern Company's Designated 
Network Resources for 2024 and the individual generating units' cost data. 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

4
SUMMER OPERATING STUDY ASSUMPTIONS
The following assumptions were used for the 2024 Summer Operating Study:
Network Operational Assumptions
1. Unless otherwise stated, if the thermal limitation(s) occurs in the normal dispatch, 
assume the problems occur in all dispatches during peak loading.
2. For a given monitored transmission element, only the flows for the worst contingency 
outage of a transmission element are listed.
3. Transmission element ratings used for this report use the 95ºF ambient adjusted 
ratings as used by Transmission Planning except for the Hot Weather (T) scenario,
which uses the 104°F ambient adjusted ratings.
4. De-rates were applied to the Fitzgerald - North Tifton115 kV line.
Screening Procedure
1. SOS Load Flow Cases: 
• T cases: Renewables On/Off + NSEW, SNWE
• H, S cases: Renewables On/Off + NSEW, NSmaxEW, SNWE, SNmaxWE
• H, S cases above with additional single and multiple generator unit 
outages
• Maximum West-East flow H, S cases: Renewables On/Off + SNWE,
SNmaxWE
• Special Extreme Event H, S cases: Renewables On/OFF + NSEW, 
SNWE
2. Screen Flags:
• Thermal loading: >100% of facility rating
• Voltage: < 95% or > 105% of nominal voltage or ≥ 5% deviation
3. Situations Studied:
• No element out using Rate A (104ºF ambient) in normal-weather peak, T
cases
• No element out using Rate B (95ºF ambient) in normal-weather peak, all H, S
cases
• Contingency N-1 (one element out) using Rate B (95ºF ambient), all H, S
cases excluding Extreme Event cases
• Contingency N-1 (one element out) using Rate B (95ºF ambient) in redispatched cases with one or more generation units out, all H, S cases 
excluding Extreme Event cases
• Extreme Event contingencies using Rate B (95ºF ambient) in normal-weather 
peak 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

5
4. Unit Out Summary:
One Unit Off Case Name
Basecase, no units out NUO
Bowen Unit 1 outage BOW1
Bowen Unit 4 outage BOW4
Farley Unit 1 outage FAR1
Franklin Unit 3 outage FRK3
Hatch Unit 1 outage HAT1
Hatch Unit 2 outage HAT2
Lansing Smith Unit 3 outage LAN3
Jack McDonough Unit 4 outage MCD4
Jack McDonough Unit 6 outage MCD6
McIntosh Unit 10 outage MC10
Scherer Unit 1 outage SCH1
Vogtle Unit 1 outage VOG1
Vogtle Unit 2 outage VOG2
Yates Unit 7 outage YAT7
Multiple Units Off Case Name
Franklin Unit 1,2,3 outage FRK123
West Point Dam Hydro Units outage WPD1
Bowen Unit 1 and Unit 4 outage BOW1BOW4
Bowen Unit 1 and McDonough Unit 6 outage BOW1MCD6
Bowen Unit 1 and Scherer Unit 1 outage BOW1SCH1
Bowen Unit 4 and Scherer Unit 1 outage BOW4SCH1
Vogtle Unit 2 and Scherer Unit 1 outage VOG2SCH1
5. Autobank Out Cases
Autobank Case Name
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

6
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

7
6. Extreme Events
Elements Out Contingency Name
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

8
Elements Out Contingency Name
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
9
2024 Georgia Limiting Facilities
(Contingency Thermal Limitations)
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
10
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
11
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
12
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
13
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
14
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
15
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
16
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
17
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
18
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
19
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
20
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
21
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
22
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
23
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
24
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
25
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
26
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
27
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
28
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
29
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
30
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
31
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
32
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
33
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
34
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
35
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
36
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
37
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
38
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
39
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
40
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
41
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
42
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
43
Monitored Facility (Line or 
Transformer Name)
% 
Load Contingency Event Case Name Recommended Operating Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
44
2024 Georgia Limiting Facilities
(Contingency Voltage Limitations)
Monitored Facility
(Bus)
Post
Voltage Contingency Name Case Name
Recommended Operating 
Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
45
Monitored Facility
(Bus)
Post
Voltage Contingency Name Case Name
Recommended Operating 
Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
46
Monitored Facility
(Bus)
Post
Voltage Contingency Name Case Name
Recommended Operating 
Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
47
Monitored Facility
(Bus)
Post
Voltage Contingency Name Case Name
Recommended Operating 
Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
48
Monitored Facility
(Bus)
Post
Voltage Contingency Name Case Name
Recommended Operating 
Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
49
Monitored Facility
(Bus)
Post
Voltage Contingency Name Case Name
Recommended Operating 
Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
50
Monitored Facility
(Bus)
Post
Voltage Contingency Name Case Name
Recommended Operating 
Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
51
Monitored Facility
(Bus)
Post
Voltage Contingency Name Case Name
Recommended Operating 
Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
52
Monitored Facility
(Bus)
Post
Voltage Contingency Name Case Name
Recommended Operating 
Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
53
Monitored Facility
(Bus)
Post
Voltage Contingency Name Case Name
Recommended Operating 
Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
54
Monitored Facility
(Bus)
Post
Voltage Contingency Name Case Name
Recommended Operating 
Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
55
Monitored Facility
(Bus)
Post
Voltage Contingency Name Case Name
Recommended Operating 
Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
56
Monitored Facility
(Bus)
Post
Voltage Contingency Name Case Name
Recommended Operating 
Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
57
Monitored Facility
(Bus)
Post
Voltage Contingency Name Case Name
Recommended Operating 
Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
58
Monitored Facility
(Bus)
Post
Voltage Contingency Name Case Name
Recommended Operating 
Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
59
Monitored Facility
(Bus)
Post
Voltage Contingency Name Case Name
Recommended Operating 
Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
60
Monitored Facility
(Bus)
Post
Voltage Contingency Name Case Name
Recommended Operating 
Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
61
Monitored Facility
(Bus)
Post
Voltage Contingency Name Case Name
Recommended Operating 
Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
62
Monitored Facility
(Bus)
Post
Voltage Contingency Name Case Name
Recommended Operating 
Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
63
Monitored Facility
(Bus)
Post
Voltage Contingency Name Case Name
Recommended Operating 
Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION (CEII) 
This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Any and all duplication of this data must contain this notification.
 This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
64
Monitored Facility
(Bus)
Post
Voltage Contingency Name Case Name
Recommended Operating 
Procedure(s)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

[C2]
2022 – 2024
SYSTEM PERFORMANCE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material 
and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in 
accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
1
Major Outages
The table below lists the major outages for years 2022, 2023, and 2024 based on the outage duration measured in MVA minutes. Georgia Power is 
defining a major outage as an outage with event duration greater than 10,000 MVA minutes.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material 
and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in 
accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material 
and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in 
accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
3
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material 
and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in 
accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
4
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material 
and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in 
accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
5
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material 
and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in 
accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
6
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by 
CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII 
procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and 
in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
1
Major Event Summary
Major Event: 
Event Overview
 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by 
CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII 
procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and 
in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2
 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

[D]
GEORGIA ITS

[D1]
GEORGIA ITS
TEN YEAR TRANSMISSION
EXPANSION PLAN
(2025 – 2034)

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 1 of 304
Georgia Projects
(Includes ITS & Savannah Projects)
2025 – 2034
 
 
 Transmission Planning
Southern Company Services
FALL 2024
 
 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 2 of 304
 
CONTENTS 
I. GA ITS EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.....................................................................................4
A. Georgia ITS 10 Year Expansion Plan Projects List ........................................................................... 7
B. Cancelled Projects List – Removed from the Current 10 Year Expansion Plan ............................ 21
C. Completed Projects List – Removed from the Current 10 Year Expansion Plan .......................... 22
II. TRANSMISSION PLANNING PROCESS DESCRIPTION..................................................24
A. Annual Planning Process and Base Cases..................................................................................... 24
Maintaining System Models.............................................................................................................. 24
Load Forecast.................................................................................................................................... 26
Generation ........................................................................................................................................ 27
Normal Open Points.......................................................................................................................... 27
III. PERFORMANCE CRITERIA..........................................................................................28
A. Steady State Analysis.................................................................................................................... 28
Steady State Sensitivity Analysis....................................................................................................... 33
Steady State Equipment Sparing Analysis......................................................................................... 33
B. Stability Analysis ........................................................................................................................... 33
Stability Past Studies......................................................................................................................... 36
Stability Sensitivity Analysis (Near-Term Planning Horizon)............................................................. 36
Steady State Coordination with Adjacent Systems........................................................................... 36
Long-Term Stability Analysis............................................................................................................. 36
C. Short Circuit Analysis .................................................................................................................... 36
D. Interface Transfer Capability Assessments................................................................................... 37
IV. ANALYSIS RESULTS....................................................................................................39
A. Operating Guides.......................................................................................................................... 39
B. Stability Project Details................................................................................................................. 43
C. Short Circuit Project Details.......................................................................................................... 54
D. Interface Transfer Capability Project Details................................................................................ 56
E. Steady State Project Details.......................................................................................................... 60
F. Expansion Generation Units Details ........................................................................................... 256
V. ADDITIONAL SYSTEM ANALYSIS NOTES...................................................................258
A. Interface Analysis........................................................................................................................ 258
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 3 of 304
B. Northern Interface and Florida Interface Studies....................................................................... 258
C. Nuclear Final Safety Offsite Power Report (FSAR) Study............................................................ 258
D. Designation Studies .................................................................................................................... 258
VI. APPENDIX ...............................................................................................................259
A. Validation Files / Reports............................................................................................................ 259
B. Generation Assumptions ............................................................................................................ 260
Base Case Definitions...................................................................................................................... 260
Generation in Cases ........................................................................................................................ 261
Generation Scenario (Unit Off / Area Max) Cases .......................................................................... 269
C. Strategic Projects........................................................................................................................ 272
Ashley Park - Wansley 500kV Line .................................................................................................. 272
Farley (APC) – Tazewell 500kV Line................................................................................................. 277
Hatch – Wadley 500kV Line............................................................................................................. 281
McGrau Ford – Middle Fork 500kV Line ......................................................................................... 285
D. Fleet Transition Tables................................................................................................................ 298
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 4 of 304
I. GA ITS EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
The results of the studies performed on the GA ITS demonstrate that required performance criteria are met,
or a project or operating guide have been developed to address any identified system deficiencies. 
A Summary of Georgia ITS Transmission additions start on the next page, followed by the List of the Georgia 
ITS 10 Year Expansion Plan Projects.
This group of projects and operating guides, found in Section IV ANALYSIS RESULTS, is reassessed each year to 
confirm continued need, timing, and scope for previously identified projects until projects have transitioned 
from planning to a committed project. These reassessments also investigate potential need for additional 
projects or modification to projects currently included. Any operating guides identified to address constraints
are reviewed by Georgia Power Transmission Operations. The transmission improvements are submitted to 
ITS Participants for ITS parity inclusion.
The following information is included for each project: 
1) project justification, 
2) schedule for implementation (start date), and 
3) expected required in-service date. 
For transmission improvements, lead times necessary to implement plans are considered to ensure the 
expected required in-service date can be met. 
 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 5 of 304
Summary of Georgia ITS Transmission Additions 
Table 1 Summary of Georgia ITS Transmission Additions
First 5 Years Total 10 Years
New Transmission Lines Requiring New Right of Way
Voltage (kV) Lines Miles Lines Miles
500 5 163 12 543
230 26 211 37 530
115 7 49 10 69
Total 38 423 59 1142
Transmission Lines to be Rebuilt / Reconductored on 
Existing Right-of Way
Voltage (kV) Lines Miles Lines Miles
500 0 0 0 0
230 24 239 33 310
115 57 479 78 672
Total 81 718 111 982
Transmission Lines Upgraded on Existing Right-of Way
Voltage (kV) Lines Miles Lines Miles
500 0 0 0 0
230 1 26 1 26
115 1 14 1 14
Total 1 40 1 40
Transformers to be installed (low side ≥ 115kV)
Units Units
New 12 21
Upgrade 4 10
New Capacitor Banks to be Installed
Voltage (kV) Units MVAR Units MVAR
230 0 0 0 0
115 2 75 5 165
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 6 of 304
First 5 Years Total 10 Years
Total 2 75 5 165
New Series Reactors to be Installed
Voltage (kV) Units Units
230 2 6
115 0 0
New Static VAR Systems to be Installed
Voltage (kV) Units Units
230 1 1
115 0 0
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its 
contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC 
policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 7 of 304
A. Georgia ITS 10 Year Expansion Plan Projects List 
Table 2 Georgia ITS 10 Year Plan Project List below briefly lists projects in the 10 Year Expansion Plan (details for each project are in later sections).
Table 2 Georgia ITS 10 Year Plan Project List
Zone Year TEAMS
Number Project Name Need Date 2024
Project 
Sponsor Estimated Cost - GPC Estimated Cost - GTC Estimated Cost -MEAG
Estimated Cost -
DU Totals
219 2025 19523 SAV: CC - HYUNDAI MOTORS 
SAVANNAH AKA. PROJECT EA
1/1/2025 SAV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2025 18670 GTC: BANKS CROSSING -
POND FORK 115 KV
5/1/2025 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
216 2025 18492 MITCHELL - NORTH TIFTON 
230KV RECONDUCTOR
5/1/2025 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
206 2025 19676 ADAMSVILLE - JACK 
MCDONOUGH 230KV LINE 
REBUILD
6/1/2025 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2025 18800 ECHECONNEE-WELLSTON 
115KV REBUILD
6/1/2025 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
211 2025 19187 GRID - BREMEN - CROOKED 
CREEK (APC) 115 KV PROJECT
6/1/2025 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2025 18153 GTC: BONAIRE PRIECHECONNEE 115 KV 
PARTIAL REBUILD
6/1/2025 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
218 2025 20342 GTC: CAMDEN INDUSTRIAL 
PARK 230/115KV NEW 
SUBSTATION
6/1/2025 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2025 20590 GTC: EATONTON PRIMARY -
LICK CREEK 115KV LINE 
SWITCH REPLACEMENT
6/1/2025 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
218 2025 11821 JESUP - LUDOWICI PRIMARY 
115KV REBUILD
6/1/2025 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
206 2025 13753 MEAG: ALCOVY ROAD - SKC 
115 KV RECONDUCTOR
6/1/2025 MEAG REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2025 13787 MEAG: AULTMAN ROAD -
BONAIRE PRIMARY 115 KV 
REBUILD
6/1/2025 MEAG REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
202 2025 20464 NORCROSS 230KV BUS 1-3 
SERIES BUS TIE BREAKER 
INSTALLATION
6/1/2025 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its 
contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC 
policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 8 of 304
Zone Year TEAMS
Number Project Name Need Date 2024
Project 
Sponsor Estimated Cost - GPC Estimated Cost - GTC Estimated Cost -MEAG
Estimated Cost -
DU Totals
216 2025 19631 PINE GROVE PRIMARY 115 KV 
DUAL STAGE CAPACITOR 
BANK 
6/1/2025 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
219 2025 20067 SAV: DEPTFORD - MAGNOLIA 
115KV RECONDUCTOR
6/1/2025 SAV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2025 20466 SMART VALVE INSTALLATION 6/1/2025 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
218 2025 21046 THALMANN AND COLERAIN 
23O KV LINE RELAY PANEL 
UPGRADES
6/1/2025 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
211 2025 20431 VILLA RICA LOW SIDE 
BREAKER
6/1/2025 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
218 2025 20684 CAMDEN INDUSTRIAL PARK 
(GPC)
6/1/2025 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
213 2025 18774 GTC: HEARD COUNTY -
TENASKA 500KV (SECOND 
LINE)
12/1/2025 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
206 2025 18889 JEFFERSON STREET#3 -
NORTHWEST (WHITE) 115 KV 
RECONDUCTOR
12/1/2025 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2025 20326 ANTHONY SHOALS STATCOM 
SYSTEM
12/31/2025 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
211 2025 20152 CC - CASS PINE- HILL VIEW 
230 KV LINE- CC 
IMPROVEMENTS
12/31/2025 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
211 2025 20175 CC - PROJECT CHRONOSSK/HYUNDAI12/31/2025 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
215 2025 20010 GTC: ANTHONY SHOALS -
WASHINGTON 115 KV LINE 
REBUILD
12/31/2025 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
219 2025 17075 SAV: LITTLE OGEECHEE 230-
115KV: RELAY 
MODERNIZATION
12/31/2025 SAV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
216 2026 18691 GTC: LIZARD LOPE -
WESTOVER 115 KV NEW LINE
3/1/2026 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
208 2026 20018 CC - QTS FAYETTEVILLE 
TRANSMISSION NEEDS
4/1/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its 
contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC 
policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 9 of 304
Zone Year TEAMS
Number Project Name Need Date 2024
Project 
Sponsor Estimated Cost - GPC Estimated Cost - GTC Estimated Cost -MEAG
Estimated Cost -
DU Totals
208 2026 19597 ADAMSVILLE - BUZZARD 
ROOST 230KV REBUILD AND 
JUMPER UPGRADE
6/1/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
201 2026 18960 BLANKETS CREEK –
WOODSTOCK 115KV LINE 
REBUILD
6/1/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
201 2026 20243 CC - GARRETT ROAD 
SWITCHING STATION - TRAE 
LANE
6/1/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
208 2026 20216 CC - STONEWALL TELL ROAD 
(TA REALTY)
6/1/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
211 2026 18679 DU: EAST DALTON -
OOSTANAULA 115KV 
REBUILD
6/1/2026 DU REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
208 2026 20491 EAST POINT RELAY 
MODERNIZATION
6/1/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
215 2026 16007 FENWICK STREET - SAND BAR 
FERRY 115KV 
(RECONDUCTOR/REBUILD)
6/1/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
213 2026 20516 GOAT ROCK 230KV SWITCH, 
JUMPER, & LINE TRAP 
REPLACEMENT
6/1/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2026 19618 GORDON-N DUBLIN 115KV 
(GORDON-ENGL MCI J) 
REBUILD
6/1/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
206 2026 21139 GRADY - MORROW (WHITE) 
115KV REBUILD
6/1/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
206 2026 20474 GRADY 230/115KV RELAY 
MODERNIZATION
6/1/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2026 19706 GRID - GAINESVILLE #2 
EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT
6/1/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
206 2026 21137 GTC: CONYERS - CORNISH 
MOUNTAIN 115KV LINE 
UPGRADE
6/1/2026 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
213 2026 19334 GTC: LAGRANGE - NORTH 
OPELIKA 230 KV
6/1/2026 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2026 20015 GTC: MORNING HORNET 2ND 
230/115 KV BANK & THUMBS 
UP 115KV TL
6/1/2026 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its 
contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC 
policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 10 of 304
Zone Year TEAMS
Number Project Name Need Date 2024
Project 
Sponsor Estimated Cost - GPC Estimated Cost - GTC Estimated Cost -MEAG
Estimated Cost -
DU Totals
214 2026 19999 GTC: ROBINS SPRING BUS 
REPLACEMENT
6/1/2026 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2026 20001 GTC: ROBINS SPRING 
CAPACITOR BANK 
INSTALLATION
6/1/2026 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
211 2026 19636 HAMMOND - WEISS DAM 
115KV LINE REBUILD
6/1/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2026 20512 KATHLEEN AREA 
IMPROVEMENTS
6/1/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
206 2026 20490 KLONDIKE RELAY 
MODERNIZATION
6/1/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
213 2026 19598 MEAG: DRESDEN - LAGRANGE 
PRIMARY 230KV UPGRADE & 
JUMPERS
6/1/2026 MEAG REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
215 2026 20270 MEAG: RAY PLACE RD -
WASHINGTON #3
6/1/2026 MEAG REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
215 2026 20271 MEAG: RAY PLACE RD -
WASHINGTON 
(WASHINGTON -
WASHINGTON 3)
6/1/2026 MEAG REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
208 2026 20300 MORROW 115KV RELAY 
UPGRADE
6/1/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
216 2026 18690 PALMYRA REACTOR 
REMOVAL
6/1/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
219 2026 20066 SAV: BOULEVARD -
DEPTFORD 115KV 
RECONDUCTOR
6/1/2026 SAV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
219 2026 19966 SAV: CC - BIG OGEECHEE 
500/230KV (CC NETWORK 
IMPROVEMENTS)
6/1/2026 SAV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
219 2026 20277 SAV: MCINTOSH -
PURRYSBURG 230KV 
REACTORS
6/1/2026 SAV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
206 2026 20489 SCOTTDALE RELAY 
MODERNIZATION
6/1/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
208 2026 17900 UNION CITY - YATES 230 KV 
WHITE LINE REBUILD
4/1/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its 
contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC 
policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 11 of 304
Zone Year TEAMS
Number Project Name Need Date 2024
Project 
Sponsor Estimated Cost - GPC Estimated Cost - GTC Estimated Cost -MEAG
Estimated Cost -
DU Totals
208 2026 20691 UNION CITY - YATES 230KV 
(WHITE) SWITCH AND TRAP 
REPLACEMENT
6/1/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
216 2026 20223 CC - PROJECT PAYTON 
BAINBRIDGE
6/30/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
208 2026 21022 OHARA BREAKER 
REPLACEMENT
10/1/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
208 2026 20668 DRESDEN LINE PROTECTIVE 
RELAYING
12/1/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
213 2026 20874 GTC: BARNESVILLE PRIMARYBARNESVILLE #1 115KV 
RECONDUCTOR
12/1/2026 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
208 2026 20273 GTC: DRESDEN 500KV BUS 
EXPANSION
12/1/2026 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2026 20002 GTC: GORDON -
SANDERSVILLE #1 115KV LINE 
REBUILD
12/1/2026 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
211 2026 20151 CC - CASS PINE 230/25 NEW 
SUB - QCELLS - CC 
IMPROVEMENTS
12/31/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
206 2026 19287 GRADY-WEST END 115KV 
REBUILD
12/31/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
208 2026 19363 MORROW - MOUNTAIN VIEW 
115 KV REBUILD
12/31/2026 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
213 2027 18832 MEAG: FORTSON 230KV 
SUBSTATION 
MODERNIZATION
1/13/2027 MEAG REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
201 2027 20509 CC - EMBLEM RIVERSIDE 
CUSTOMER SUB (FLEXENTIAL)
3/1/2027 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
211 2027 19635 GTC: HICKORY LEVEL - VILLA 
RICA 230KV LINE 
RECONDUCTOR
5/1/2027 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
208 2027 19601 MORROW - YATES COMMON 
115KV LINE UPGRADE
5/1/2027 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
211 2027 15879 POSSUM BRANCH - YATES 
COMMON 115KV REBUILD 
(YATES TO CLEM)
5/1/2027 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its 
contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC 
policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 12 of 304
Zone Year TEAMS
Number Project Name Need Date 2024
Project 
Sponsor Estimated Cost - GPC Estimated Cost - GTC Estimated Cost -MEAG
Estimated Cost -
DU Totals
208 2027 20771 CC - GULLATT ROAD 
TRANSMISSION 
IMPROVEMENTS
6/1/2027 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
208 2027 18736 CC - MICROSOFT - SHUGART 
(CCO06)
6/1/2027 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
201 2027 20781 CC - SUMMER LAKE - VILLA 
RICA 230KV REBUILD (CC 
IMPROVMNT)
6/1/2027 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
208 2027 20736 CC - TA REALTY ELLENWOOD 
NETWORK IMPROVEMENTS
6/1/2027 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2027 20234 DOYLE - LG&E MONROE 
230KV - JACKS CREEK LOOP IN
6/1/2027 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
201 2027 20858 GTC: ADAMSVILLE - BUZZARD 
ROOST 230KV REBUILD
6/1/2027 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
201 2027 20776 GTC: DOUGLASVILLE - VILLA 
RICA 230KV REBUILD (CC 
IMPROVEMENT)
6/1/2027 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2027 20778 GTC: DOYLE - WINDER 
PRIMARY 230KV LINE JUMPER 
REPLACEMENT
6/1/2027 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
216 2027 19358 GTC: EAST MOULTRIE -
HIGHWAY 112 230 KV LINE
6/1/2027 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2027 09662 GTC: EAST WALTON 
500/230KV PROJECT
6/1/2027 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
201 2027 20505 GTC: GARRETT RD - V. RICA 
230KV LINE RECONDUCTOR 
(CC NET IM)
6/1/2027 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2027 19622 GTC: RIDDLEVILLE BUS 
REPLACEMENT
6/1/2027 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
206 2027 19606 GTC: SKC 115KV BUS AND 
JUMPER REPLACEMENT
6/1/2027 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2027 20020 GTC: SOUTH HAZLEHURST -
NEW LACY 230KV LINE
6/1/2027 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
201 2027 20506 GTC: SWITCH WAY -
THORNTON ROAD 230KV LINE 
REBUILD
6/1/2027 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
218 2027 18668 JESUP - OFFERMAN 115KV 
REBUILD
6/1/2027 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its 
contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC 
policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 13 of 304
Zone Year TEAMS
Number Project Name Need Date 2024
Project 
Sponsor Estimated Cost - GPC Estimated Cost - GTC Estimated Cost -MEAG
Estimated Cost -
DU Totals
202 2027 10143 LAWRENCEVILLE - WINDER 
115KV LINE REBUILD
6/1/2027 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
202 2027 10481 LAWRENCEVILLE - WINDER 
PRIMARY 230KV LINE 
REBUILD
6/1/2027 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
215 2027 20264 MEAG: RAY PLACE RD -
WARRENTON PRIMARY
6/1/2027 MEAG REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2027 19248 SANDERSVILLE #1 - WADLEY 
PRI. 115KV 
REBUILD/RECONDUCTOR
6/1/2027 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
219 2027 20785 SAV: GOSHEN (SAV) - KRAFT 
115KV LINE REBUILD
6/1/2027 SAV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
219 2027 20065 SAV: GOSHEN (SAV) -
MCINTOSH 115KV LINE 
REBUILD
6/1/2027 SAV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
208 2027 20717 CC - TOMOCHICHI 500/230KV 
SOLUTION (CC NETWORK 
IMPROVEMENTS)
7/15/2027 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2027 18573 GRID - ARKWRIGHT - LLOYD 
SHOALS 115KV
7/30/2027 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2027 20591 GTC: EATONTON PRIMARY 
(035591) - LICK CREEK 115KV 
REBUILD
12/1/2027 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2027 17977 ATHENA - EAST 
WATKINSVILLE 115 KV 
(REBUILD)
12/31/2027 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
211 2027 20150 CC - HILL VIEW & GRASSY 
HOLLOW SUB - CC 
IMPROVEMENTS
12/31/2027 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
211 2027 20024 DYER ROAD - EAST ROANOKE 
115KV (REBUILD)
12/31/2027 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2028 19997 AULTMAN ROAD-PERRY 
115KV LINE REBUILD
6/1/2028 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
201 2028 20797 CC - EAST VILLA RICA AREA 
SWITCHING STATION (CC 
IMPROVEMENT)
6/1/2028 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
211 2028 20774 CC - VILLA RICA UPGRADES 
(CC NETWORK 
IMPROVEMENTS)
6/1/2028 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its 
contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC 
policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 14 of 304
Zone Year TEAMS
Number Project Name Need Date 2024
Project 
Sponsor Estimated Cost - GPC Estimated Cost - GTC Estimated Cost -MEAG
Estimated Cost -
DU Totals
214 2028 21048 FITZGERALD - PITTS 115 KV 
LINE REBUILD
6/1/2028 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
213 2028 08458 GTC: BARNESVILLE - SOUTH 
GRIFFIN 230KV PROJECT
6/1/2028 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
216 2028 20503 GTC: BARNEYVILLE - EAST 
MOULTRIE 115KV NEW LINE
6/1/2028 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2028 20873 GTC: BONAIRE PRIMARY 
500/230KV XFMR REPLCMNT 
& RELAY MOD
6/1/2028 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2028 19992 GTC: BOSTWICK - EAST 
SOCIAL CIRCLE 230KV 
RECONDUCTOR
6/1/2028 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
206 2028 20777 JACK MCDONOUGH -
NORTHWEST (BLACK) 230KV 
RECONDUCTOR
6/1/2028 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
216 2028 19629 MEAG: BRUMBLEY CREEK -
SOUTH BAINBRIDGE 115KV 
REBUILD
6/1/2028 MEAG REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
216 2028 19630 MEAG: THOMASVILLE 
230/115KV AUTOBANK 
REPLACEMENT
6/1/2028 MEAG REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
213 2028 20482 PITTMAN ROAD - WEST 
POINT DAM (USA) 115KV 
REBUILD
6/1/2028 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
208 2028 20656 PLANT YATES BREAKER AND 
HALF STATION
6/1/2028 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
219 2028 20783 SAV: COLEMAN - DEAN 
FOREST 115KV LINE REBUILD
6/1/2028 SAV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
219 2028 20407 SAV: MAGNOLIA - TRUMAN 
PARKWAY 115KV REBUILD
6/1/2028 SAV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
201 2028 21069 SMART VALVES AT EAST VILLA 
RICA SWITCHING STATION
6/1/2028 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2028 20768 SOUTH MACON 115KV BUSES 
1 & 2 REPLACEMENT
6/1/2028 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
208 2028 20274 UNION CITY - YATES 230KV 
(BLACK) LINE REBUILD
6/1/2028 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
213 2028 13166 FIRST AVENUE - NORTH 
COLUMBUS 115KV LINE 
REBUILD
12/1/2028 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its 
contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC 
policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 15 of 304
Zone Year TEAMS
Number Project Name Need Date 2024
Project 
Sponsor Estimated Cost - GPC Estimated Cost - GTC Estimated Cost -MEAG
Estimated Cost -
DU Totals
214 2028 20586 GTC: NORTH DUBLIN 
230/115KV TRANSFORMERS 
AND BUS-TIE BREAKER
12/1/2028 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
208 2029 21062 ASHLEY PARK-WANSLEY 
500KV
6/1/2029 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
216 2029 10222 BLAKELY PRIMARY -
HUCKLEBERRY 115KV 
REBUILD
6/1/2029 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2029 21047 BROADWAY - ECHECONNEE 
115 KV LINE REBUILD
6/1/2029 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
213 2029 16887 BUTLER - THOMASTON 230KV 
LINE CONVERSION
6/1/2029 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
201 2029 21036 BUZZARD ROOST - FACTORY 
SHOALS 230KV NEW LINE
6/1/2029 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
206 2029 21142 CONYERS - KLONDIKE 230 KV 
SECOND LINE
6/1/2029 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
206 2029 21138 GLENWOOD SPRINGS -
PORTERDALE PRIMARY 230KV 
LINE SWITCH REPL
6/1/2029 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
213 2029 21112 GTC: BARNESVILLE PRIMARY -
THOMASTON 230KV
6/1/2029 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
202 2029 10814 GTC: BAY CREEK 230/115KV 
SECOND AUTO 
TRANSFORMER
6/1/2029 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2029 21140 GTC: BONAIRE PRIMARY -
EASTMAN PRIMARY 115 KV 
LINE REBUILD
6/1/2029 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
201 2029 20849 GTC: CLIFTONDALE - LINE 
CREEK 230KV LINE
6/1/2029 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
213 2029 19950 GTC: DRESDEN - TALBOT 
500KV LINE 
6/1/2029 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
202 2029 20760 GTC: HOPEWELL 230/115 KV 
BANK A
6/1/2029 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
201 2029 21123 GTC: TENASKA - WANSLEY 
500KV NEW LINE
6/1/2029 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
206 2029 21141 LLOYD SHOALS - PORTERDALE 
PRIMARY 115KV REBUILD
6/1/2029 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
216 2029 20285 LOWER RIVER - WEBB (APC) 
115KV RECONDUCTOR
6/1/2029 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its 
contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC 
policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 16 of 304
Zone Year TEAMS
Number Project Name Need Date 2024
Project 
Sponsor Estimated Cost - GPC Estimated Cost - GTC Estimated Cost -MEAG
Estimated Cost -
DU Totals
212 2029 19621 MCEVER ROAD - SHOAL 
CREEK 115KV REBUILD
6/1/2029 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
218 2029 20346 MCMANUS - WEST 
BRUNSWICK 115KV REBUILD
6/1/2029 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2029 17706 MEAG: AULTMAN ROAD -
FORT VALLEY #1 115 KV 
REBUILD
6/1/2029 MEAG REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
216 2029 11051 MEAG: SLAPPEY DRIVE -
WESTOVER 115KV LINE 
REBUILD
6/1/2029 MEAG REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
202 2029 20757 NORCROSS - NORTH DRUID 
HILLS 115KV REBUILD
6/1/2029 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
219 2029 21006 SAV: BOULEVARD -
MAGNOLIA 115 KV LINE 
REBUILD
6/1/2029 SAV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
219 2029 21023 SAV: DEAN FOREST - LITTLE 
OGEECHEE 230 KV REBUILD
6/1/2029 SAV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
219 2029 20989 SAV: RICE HOPE NEW AUTO 
TRANSFORMER
6/1/2029 SAV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
216 2029 13628 SOUTH BAINBRIDGE - SINAI 
(FPL) 115KV LINE 
RECONDUCTOR
6/1/2029 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
202 2029 20248 BAY CREEK - CONYERS 230KV 
REBUILD
12/31/2029 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
211 2030 21129 ANNISTON - HAMMOND 
230KV LINE
6/1/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
201 2030 20764 ATKINSON - NORTHSIDE 
DRIVE 115KV REBUILD
6/1/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
201 2030 20761 ATKINSON - NORTHWEST 
115KV REBUILD
6/1/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2030 21130 CC - NORTH GEORGIA DATA 
NETWORK UPGRADES
6/1/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2030 10478 CORNELIA - TALLULAH LODGE 
115KV REBUILD
6/1/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2030 18669 DU: DAWSON CROSSING -
NELSON (WHITE) 115 KV 
REBUILD
6/1/2030 DU REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
201 2030 21097 EAST POINT - TRIBUTARY 
230KV REBUILD
6/1/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its 
contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC 
policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 17 of 304
Zone Year TEAMS
Number Project Name Need Date 2024
Project 
Sponsor Estimated Cost - GPC Estimated Cost - GTC Estimated Cost -MEAG
Estimated Cost -
DU Totals
208 2030 20480 EAST POINT - UNION CITY 
230KV BLACK LINE 
RECONDUCTOR
6/1/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2030 19627 ECHECONNEE-WELLSTON 
115KV LINE REBUILD
6/1/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
216 2030 21063 FARLEY (APC)-TAZEWELL 
500KV
6/1/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2030 12120 GAINESVILLE #2 - MCEVER 
ROAD 115 KV REBUILD
6/1/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2030 20298 GLENWOOD SPRINGS - LAKE 
OCONEE 115KV LINE REBUILD
6/1/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
213 2030 21128 GOAT ROCK REACTORS 
INSTALLATION
6/1/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
215 2030 19996 GOLDENS CREEK -
WARRENTON PRIMARY 
230KV REBUILD
6/1/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2030 20428 GORDON-SANDERSVILLE #1 
115KV LINE REBUILD 
(DEEPSTEP-SAND #6)
6/1/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
215 2030 21116 GOSHEN AREA STRATEGIC 
SOLUTION
6/1/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
208 2030 21073 GTC: BIG SMARR -
TOMOCHICHI 500KV
6/1/2030 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
201 2030 21014 GTC: BUZZARD ROOST -
CAVENDER DRIVE 230KV NEW 
LINE
6/1/2030 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
201 2030 21013 GTC: CAVENDER DRIVE 
500/230KV AUTOBANK
6/1/2030 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2030 20375 GTC: EAST WATKINSVILLE 230 
KV STATION MODIFICATION
6/1/2030 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2030 21111 GTC: HARTWELL DAM -
HARTWELL ENERGY 230KV 
SERIES REACTORS
6/1/2030 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2030 21113 GTC: HARTWELL ENERGY -
MIDDLE FORK 230KV LINE
6/1/2030 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2030 21131 GTC: POND FORK - MIDWAY 
115KV LINE
6/1/2030 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its 
contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC 
policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 18 of 304
Zone Year TEAMS
Number Project Name Need Date 2024
Project 
Sponsor Estimated Cost - GPC Estimated Cost - GTC Estimated Cost -MEAG
Estimated Cost -
DU Totals
214 2030 21077 GTC: ROCKVILLE - TIGER 
CREEK -WARTHEN 500KV 
LINES
6/1/2030 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
216 2030 21076 GTC: TALLBOT #2 - TAZEWELL 
500KV LINE
6/1/2030 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2030 21094 GTC: TIGER CREEKROCKVILLE-NORTH SPA 
230KV PROJECT
6/1/2030 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2030 20789 JEFFERSON ROAD - WINDER 
PRIMARY 115KV REBUILD
6/1/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
216 2030 20284 KETTLE CREEK PRIMARY -
PINE GROVE PRIMARY 115KV 
REBUILD
6/1/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
215 2030 21118 MEAG: ATHENA -
WARRENTON 230KV 
CONVERSION
6/1/2030 MEAG REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
201 2030 20857 NEW CAVENDER DRIVE -
TRIBUTARY 230KV LINE
6/1/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2030 21093 NORTH SPA 230KV 
STRATEGIC PROJECT
6/1/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2030 19995 TALLULAH LODGE - TOCCOA 
115 KV REBUILD
6/1/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
201 2030 21098 TRIBUTARY - THORNTON RD 
230KV REBUILD
6/1/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
213 2030 20160 THOMASTON 230 NEW BUILD 
SUB
11/1/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
216 2030 18848 BAINBRIDGE TRANSMISSION: 
EAST RIVER ROAD, EAST 
BAINBRIDGE
12/31/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2030 19626 GLENWOOD SPRINGS 115KV 
CAP BANK 
12/31/2030 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
208 2031 20690 EAST POINT - UNION CITY 
(WHITE) 230KV REBUILD
5/1/2031 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
202 2031 19632 AVERY - HOPEWELL 115KV 
RECONDUCTOR
6/1/2031 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
211 2031 10811 BOWEN #10 500/230KV 
AUTOBANK REPLACEMENT
6/1/2031 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
215 2031 20756 HATCH - WADLEY 500 KV LINE 
STRATEGIC PROJECT
6/1/2031 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its 
contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC 
policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 19 of 304
Zone Year TEAMS
Number Project Name Need Date 2024
Project 
Sponsor Estimated Cost - GPC Estimated Cost - GTC Estimated Cost -MEAG
Estimated Cost -
DU Totals
214 2031 21099 MEAG: PIO NONO 230/115KV 
AREA SOLUTION
6/1/2031 MEAG REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
213 2032 21114 MEAG: SOUTH GRIFFIN 
230/115KV BANK #5 
6/1/2032 MEAG REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
219 2032 20784 SAV: COLEMAN - MELDRIM 
115KV LINE REBUILD
6/1/2032 SAV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 2033 20767 ARKWRIGHT BUS AND 
JUMPER REPLACEMENT
6/1/2033 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
202 2033 20758 BAY CREEK - CONYERS 230KV 
LIMITING ELEMENT 
REPLACEMENT
6/1/2033 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
215 2033 20793 EVANS PRIMARY -
THURMOND DAM (USA) #5 
115KV REBUILD
6/1/2033 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
215 2033 20794 EVANS PRIMARY -
THURMOND DAM (USA) #6 
115KV REBUILD
6/1/2033 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2033 12217 GTC: CENTER PRIMARY -
CLARKSBORO 230 KV REBUILD
6/1/2033 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2033 20773 GTC: CLARKSBORO - WINDER 
PRIMARY 230KV REBUILD
6/1/2033 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2033 12147 GTC: EAST SOCIAL CIRCLE -
SNELLVILLE 230KV 
EQUIPMENT UPGRADE
6/1/2033 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2033 21075 GTC: EAST WALTON - MIDDLE 
FORK 500KV
6/1/2033 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2033 20791 GTC: SHOAL CREEK - SOUTH 
HALL 230KV REBUILD
6/1/2033 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2033 21053 MCEVER ROAD - SHOAL 
CREEK 115KV REBUILD PHASE 
III
6/1/2033 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2033 09661 MCGRAU FORD - MIDDLE 
FORK 500KV LINE PROJECT
6/1/2033 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
219 2033 20796 SAV: MELDRIM BANK D 
REPLACEMENT
6/1/2033 SAV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
215 2033 14222 THOMSON PRIMARY 
230/115KV SECOND 
TRANSFORMER
6/1/2033 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its 
contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC 
policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 20 of 304
Zone Year TEAMS
Number Project Name Need Date 2024
Project 
Sponsor Estimated Cost - GPC Estimated Cost - GTC Estimated Cost -MEAG
Estimated Cost -
DU Totals
202 2033 20759 WINDER PRIMARY 230KV BUS 
1-2 PARALLEL BUS-TIE 
INSTALLATION
6/1/2033 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
216 2033 10487 PINE GROVE PRIMARY - WEST 
VALDOSTA 115 KV 
RECONDUCTOR
12/31/2033 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 2034 18700 DAWSON CROSSING -
GAINESVILLE #1 115 KV
6/1/2034 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
219 2034 20787 SAV: LITTLE OGEECHEE 
230/115KV BANK 
REPLACEMENT 
6/1/2034 SAV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
215 2034 17993 EVANS PRIMARY - THOMSON 
PRIMARY 115KV REBUILD
12/31/2034 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Total REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its 
contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC 
policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 21 of 304
B. Cancelled Projects List – Removed from the Current 10 Year Expansion Plan 
Table 3 Cancelled Projects – Removed from the Current Ten-Year Plan below briefly lists removed projects from previous year’s 10 Year Expansion Plan. 
Table 3 Cancelled Projects – Removed from the Current Ten-Year Plan
Zone TEAMS Project Name
Last 
Year’s 
Need 
Date
Project 
Sponsor
Estimated 
Cost - GPC
Estimated 
Cost - GTC
Estimated 
Cost -
MEAG
Estimated 
Cost - DU
Estimated Cost –
ITS Assigned Totals
214 12016 ARKWRIGHT - LLOYD SHOALS 115 
KV LINE RECONDUCTOR
6/1/2024 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
216 19628 ARLINGTON PRIMARY - LIZARD 
LOPE 115KV RECONDUCTOR
6/1/2029 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
212 20477 BANKS CROSSING - CENTER 
PRIMARY (BLACK) 230 KV LINE
6/1/2029 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
201 12063 DOUGLASVILLE - POST RD 115KV 
REBUILD
6/1/2029 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
215 19623 GTC: AUGUSTA CORPORATE PARK 
- VOGTLE 230KV REBUILD 
6/1/2029 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
214 20513 GTC: BIG GROCERY-WESTLAKE 
ROAD 230KV PROJECTS
6/1/2029 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
219 15228 KRAFT 230/115KV TRANSFORMER 
RATING INCREASE
6/1/2029 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
208 20000 YATES 6 AND 7 230KV LIMITING 
ELEMENT REPLACEMENT
6/1/2029 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
213 20482 PITTMAN ROAD - WEST POINT 
DAM (USA) 115KV REBUILD
6/1/2031 GPC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
215 20266 GTC: GOSHEN - VOGTLE 230KV 
REBUILD
6/1/2031 GTC REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its 
contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC 
policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 22 of 304
C. Completed Projects List – Removed from the Current 10 Year Expansion Plan 
Table 4 Completed Projects – Removed from the Current Ten-Year Plan below, briefly lists projects removed from the previous year’s 10 Year Expansion Plan due 
to In Service or Construction Completion. 
Table 4 Completed Projects – Removed from the Current Ten-Year Plan
Zone TEAMS Project Name Last Year’s 
Need Date
214 20017 ARKWRIGHT - SOUTH MACON (BLACK) 115KV LINE REBUILD 6/1/2024
213 18671 CORN CRIB - LAGRANGE 115KV LINE REBUILD 6/1/2024
212 19340 GTC: MIDDLE FORK STATCOM SYSTEM 6/1/2024
218 19028 KINGSLAND BANK C REPLACEMENT 6/1/2024
206 18104 KLONDIKE SWITCH REPLACEMENT 6/1/2024
211 19305 MCGRAU FORD STATCOM SYSTEM 6/1/2024
202 20006 NORCROSS 230KV BUS 2-3 SERIES BUS TIE BREAKER INSTALLATION 6/1/2024
216 19019 PINE GROVE PRIMARY BANK B REPLACEMENT 6/1/2024
215 14271 THOMSON PRI - WARRENTON PRI 115KV WHITE LINE REBUILD 6/1/2024
215 19625 WARRENTON PRIMARY 230KV SWITCHES AND JUMPER REPLACEMENT 6/1/2024
211 19341 GTC: JUDY MOUNTAIN SHUNT REACTOR 12/1/2024
208 20021 GTC: UNION CITY 230KV BUS TIE 12/1/2024
211 20430 EAST DALTON JUMPER REPLACEMENT 6/1/2025
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 23 of 304
Figure 1 SCS Transmission Planning - East Responsibilities
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 24 of 304
II. TRANSMISSION PLANNING PROCESS DESCRIPTION 
A. Annual Planning Process and Base Cases 
The Transmission Planning process performed by Southern Company Services for the 10-year planning horizon 
is a continual process. The process ensures that the Georgia Integrated Transmission System (ITS) participants 
have all the information necessary to develop projects for identified system limitations to ensure compliance 
with all NERC Planning Standard requirements, and in time to meet individual participant budget and 
scheduling needs. The ITS Joint Committee for Planning and Operations will determine which ITS Participant 
will have construction and ownership responsibilities based upon a full consideration of surrounding issues 
including, but not limited to, facility ownership and the ITS parity forecast. 
This report summarizes Planning Coordinator (PC) and Transmission Planner (TP) planning studies performed 
by SCST specifically for the Georgia ITS as described in the Guidelines for Planning Transmission System Facility 
Improvements and is consistent with the NERC TPL-001-5 Standard (“Standard”). 
The following sections provide an overview of maintaining system models, the detailed studies performed, 
which includes steady state, stability, and short circuit studies, and the resulting Projects and Operating 
Guides for the mitigation of identified system deficiencies.
Maintaining System Models 
The detailed studies are performed on transmission system models (“base cases”) which are updated annually 
based on the current 10-year forecast for Southern Balancing Authority Area (SBAA) load and generation 
required to serve the load. The base cases use data consistent with that provided in accordance with the NERC
MOD-032 standard, supplemented by other sources as needed, including items represented in the Corrective 
Action Plan (CAP) and projected system conditions. The base cases include the latest available external 
representation of the Eastern Interconnection which is generally obtained from the Multi-Regional Modeling 
Working Group (MMWG) or SERC Reliability Corporation (SERC) Long Term Study Group. The base cases 
include the following [Requirement 1]:
1. Existing facilities.
2. Known outages of generation or transmission facilities with a duration of at least six months. All 
outages meeting this criterion in the near-term Transmission Planning horizon were modeled with the 
impacted equipment out-of-service as described in Attachment 1 of the MOD-032 Standard.
3. New planned Facilities and changes to existing Facilities. These Facilities are rated in accordance with 
NERC Reliability Standard FAC-008-3.
4. Real and reactive load forecasts are provided by each Load Serving Entity within the Southern 
Balancing Authority Area (SBAA).
5. Known commitments for Firm Transmission Service and Interchange.
6. Resources required for Load.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 25 of 304
The model of the SBAA is constantly changing. The base cases of the system are created on an as needed basis 
at least twice annually on a schedule like the one shown in Figure 2 below. This ensures that as projects are 
identified they are included in the analysis of future years.
Figure 2 Annual Base Case Release and Study Schedule
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 26 of 304
Load Forecast 
Refer to the Load Forecast table below for summer peak load projections by year. 
Table 5 2024 Series ITS Load Forecast
REDACTED
Figure 3 Total 2024 Series ITS Summer Coincident Load Forecast
 REDACTED 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 27 of 304
Generation 
Another key modeling assumption made in case development is the generation resources. Future generation 
assumptions for native load resources for Southern Company, GTC, MEAG, and Dalton are shown in the table 
in Section VI Generation Assumptions. The table lists both owned units and Power Purchase Agreements, for 
all parties at the beginning of the year. The dispatch program commits sufficient resources to satisfy the load 
and reserve requirements for each company in each base case or unit-out case, then adjusts the output level 
for each generator in the most economical manner.
Normal Open Points 
The ITS evaluates normal open point configurations on the Summer Cases. The ITS has alternative 
transmission service paths to some loads that have radial service. The function of these alternative service 
paths is to shift load from one circuit path to another should the primary service path be out of service. These 
alternative service paths cannot remain closed without also opening the primary service path because this 
new configuration’s system protection will not adequately protect the transmission line if operated as a 
network transmission line and could cause network load flow constraints. 
If a normal open point change is desired, Operations and Planning will evaluate the proposed new system to 
ensure that the system can accommodate the request prior to reconfiguration.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 28 of 304
III. PERFORMANCE CRITERIA 
A. Steady State Analysis 
Steady state analyses were conducted to consider TPL-001-5 Table 1 Category P0-P7 Planning Events and 
Extreme Events in both the near-term and longer-term planning horizons for both peak and off-peak loading 
models. The System Peak loading model represents summer conditions. The System Shoulder loading models 
represent 93% of summer peak demand with hydro generation motoring off-line and includes models with 
solar facilities either on or off-line. This load assumption was anticipated to result in the highest system stress, 
except a summer peak scenario, with a significant portion of energy-limited resources projected to be off-line. 
Additionally, System Off-Peak cases representing 70% of the summer peak demand were evaluated. All 
System peak, Off-Peak, and Shoulder cases are evaluated using Rate B (95°F ambient temperature). 
[Requirement 2 Parts 2.1.1, 2.1.2, and 2.2.1] 
Additionally, a Hot Weather case representing 107% of system peak is evaluated under ITS procedures using 
Rate A (104°F ambient temperature) for all equipment ratings.
All projects resulting from Steady State analysis to address any identified deficiencies have been added to the 
list of projects in Section IV E, Steady State Project Details.
Table 6 Steady State Transmission Planning Criteria below briefly describes the Transmission Planning steady 
state study methodology to meet TPL-001-5 Table 1 Contingency requirements:
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its 
contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC 
policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 29 of 304
Table 6 Steady State Transmission Planning Criteria (TPL-001-5 Table 1)
Category Initial Condition Event Fault 
Type
Study Performed – The CAP addresses facilities that did not meet the appropriate criteria
P0
No 
contingency
Normal System None N/A Thermal and voltage analysis was performed on the SBAA System model assuming no additional outages other than 
those already modeled as described in the “Base Case Development” section (N-0).
P1
Single 
Contingency
Normal System Loss of one of the 
following:
3Ø
1. Generator PSS/E generator transformer branches were removed for each generator as part of N-1 contingency analysis. In some 
instances, more than one generator is removed in this analysis due to the outage associated with a common collector 
bus.
2. Transmission Circuit Each PSS/E branch of the SBAA System model is removed from service one at a time. This has been compared to 
opening breaker to breaker and found to produce the same or more severe results for the SBAA System.
3. Transformer Each PSS/E transformer branch of the SBAA System model is removed from service one at a time.
4. Shunt Device Each PSS/E shunt device of the SBAA System is removed from service one at a time.
5. Single Pole of a DC line SLG Not applicable as HVDC lines are not currently installed in the SBAA System and no HVDC lines outside of the SBAA have 
been identified by adjacent PCs and TPs as affecting the SBAA System in the planning horizon.
P2
Single 
Contingency
Normal System 1. Opening of a line 
section w/o a fault
N/A Each PSS/E branch circuit of the SBAA System model is removed from service one at a time.
2. Bus Section Fault SLG Manually defined contingencies on the SBAA System model that simulate a bus section fault are removed from service 
one at a time.
3. Internal Breaker Fault 
(non-Bus-tie Breaker)
SLG Manually defined contingencies on the SBAA System model that simulate an internal breaker fault (non-bus-tie 
breaker) are removed from service one at a time.
4. Internal Breaker Fault
(Bus-tie Breaker)
SLG Manually defined contingencies on the SBAA System model that simulate an internal breaker fault (bus-tie breaker) are 
removed from service one at a time.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its 
contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC 
policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 30 of 304
Category Initial Condition Event Fault 
Type
Study Performed – The CAP addresses facilities that did not meet the appropriate criteria
P3
Multiple 
Contingency
Loss of generator unit 
followed by System 
adjustments
Loss of one of the
following:
3Ø
1. Generator A list of the two largest generators on the SBAA System model per kV level found at any one location is developed. 
From this list, a set of singular unit out cases is developed and then using these cases, each one of the remaining 
generators on the list is removed from service one at a time resulting in an N-G-G.
2. Transmission Circuit A set of singular unit out cases is developed from the SBAA System model. Using these cases, each branch segment is 
removed from service one at a time.
3. Transformer A set of singular unit out cases are developed from the SBAA System model. Using these cases, each branch segment 
that includes a transformer is removed from service one at a time.
4. Shunt Device A set of singular unit out cases is developed from the SBAA System model. Using these cases, each shunt device is 
removed from service one at a time.
5. Single pole of a DC line SLG Not applicable as HVDC lines are not currently installed in the SBAA System and no HVDC lines outside of the SBAA have 
been identified by adjacent PCs and TPs as affecting the SBAA System in the planning horizon.
P4
Multiple 
Contingency
(Fault plus 
stuck breaker)
Normal System Loss of multiple elements 
caused by a stuck breaker 
(non-Bus-tie Breaker) 
attempting to clear a 
Fault on one of the 
following:
SLG
1. Generator Manually defined contingencies that simulate the loss of multiple elements caused by a stuck breaker (non-bus-tie 
breaker) attempting to clear a Fault on a generator are removed from service one at a time.
2. Transmission Circuit Manually defined contingencies that simulate the loss of multiple elements caused by a stuck breaker (non-bus-tie 
breaker) attempting to clear a Fault on a transmission circuit are removed from service one at a time.
3. Transformer Manually defined contingencies that simulate the loss of multiple elements caused by a stuck breaker (non-bus-tie 
breaker) attempting to clear a Fault on a transformer are removed from service one at a time.
4. Shunt Device Manually defined contingencies that simulate the loss of multiple elements caused by a stuck breaker (non-bus-tie 
breaker) attempting to clear a Fault on a shunt device are removed from service one at a time. Only shunt devices 
expected to impact the BES are modeled as branch segments.
5. Bus Section Manually defined contingencies that simulate the loss of multiple elements caused by a stuck breaker (non-bus-tie 
breaker) attempting to clear a Fault on a bus section are removed from service one at a time.
6. Loss of multiple 
elements caused by a 
stuck breaker (Bus-tie 
Breaker) attempting to 
clear a Fault on the 
associated bus
SLG
Manually defined contingencies that simulate the loss of multiple elements caused by a stuck breaker (bus-tie breaker) 
attempting to clear a Fault on the associated bus are removed from service one at a time.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its 
contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC 
policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 31 of 304
Category Initial Condition Event Fault 
Type
Study Performed – The CAP addresses facilities that did not meet the appropriate criteria
P5
Multiple 
Contingency
(Fault plus 
relay failure 
to operate)
Normal System Delayed Fault Clearing 
due to the failure of a 
non-redundant relay 
protecting the Faulted 
element to operate as 
designed, for one of the 
following:
SLG
1. Generator This contingency was not analyzed because a review by Southern Company Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) concluded 
that the most severe contingency would be a P5.5 since it would clear the entire bus. This contingency is expected to 
be very similar to the P5.5 contingency.
2. Transmission Circuit This contingency was not analyzed because a review by Southern Company SMEs concluded that the most severe 
contingency would be a P5.5 since it would clear the entire bus. This contingency is expected to be very similar to the 
P5.5 contingency.
3. Transformer This contingency was not analyzed because a review by Southern Company SMEs concluded that the most severe 
contingency would be a P5.5 since it would clear the entire bus. This contingency is expected to be very similar to the 
P5.5 contingency.
4. Shunt Device This contingency was not analyzed because a review by Southern Company SMEs concluded that the most severe 
contingency would be a P5.5 since it would clear the entire bus. This contingency is expected to be very similar to the 
P5.5 contingency.
5. Bus Section Simulations were run to determine which elements would open to clear the fault if a protection system failure 
occurred. This information was used to simulate the contingency in the steady state case.
P6
Multiple 
Contingency
(Two 
overlapping 
singles)
Loss of one of the following 
followed by System 
adjustments.
1. Transmission Circuit
2. Transformer
3. Shunt Device
4. Single pole of a DC line
Loss of one of the 
following:
3Ø
1. Transmission Circuit PSSE is used to rank and remove from service combinations of elements based on the severity of the impact of the loss 
of these combinations on the SBAA portion of the planning model.
2. Transformer PSSE is used to rank and remove from service combinations of elements based on the severity of the impact of the loss 
of these combinations on the SBAA portion of the planning model.
3. Shunt Device PSSE is used to rank and remove from service combinations of elements based on the severity of the impact of the loss 
of these combinations on the SBAA portion of the planning model. Only shunt devices expected to impact the BES are 
modeled as branch segments.
4. Single pole of a DC line SLG Not applicable as HVDC lines are not currently installed in the SBAA System and no HVDC lines outside of the SBAA have 
been identified by adjacent PCs and TPs as affecting the SBAA System in the planning horizon.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its 
contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC 
policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 32 of 304
Category Initial Condition Event Fault 
Type
Study Performed – The CAP addresses facilities that did not meet the appropriate criteria
P7
Multiple 
Contingency
(Common 
Structure)
Normal System The loss of: SLG
1. Any two adjacent 
(vertically or horizontally) 
circuits on common 
structure 
Manually defined contingencies on the SBAA System model that simulate the loss of any two adjacent (vertically or 
horizontally) circuits on a common structure are removed from service one at a time. These contingencies were 
developed by SMEs to ensure that all are captured.
2. Loss of a bipolar DC 
line
Not applicable as HVDC lines are not currently installed in the SBAA System and no HVDC lines outside of the SBAA have 
been identified by adjacent PCs and TPs as affecting the SBAA System in the planning horizon.
Extreme 
Events
Normal System Variable Variable Extreme events with significant potential impacts were reviewed and options to mitigate the impacts identified. Events 
evaluated included:
1. Planning events that were mitigated using specific System adjustments. However, it was assumed the adjustments 
did not occur. Studies were then performed to simulate the next fault with normal clearing before the System 
adjustments were made.
2. Local area events affecting the Transmission System, as defined by Subject Matter Experts, including:
 a. Loss of a tower line with three or more circuits.
 b. Loss of all Transmission lines on a common Right-of-Way.
 c. Loss of a switching station or substation (loss of the one voltage level plus transformers).
 d. Loss of all generating units at a generating station.
3. No wide area events affecting the SBAA System were identified.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 33 of 304
Where Table 6 Steady State Transmission Planning Criteria required a generation outage as a portion of the 
contingency, a summary of key unit outs considered was developed and can be found in Section VI B, 
Generation Assumptions. This table shows not only the units considered but the cases in which they were 
used as well. Some unit outs were not needed in certain cases because the unit was already off due to the 
expected dispatch in the case. These selected generating units which provide more severe stress on the 
system have been identified through experience over many years of conducting power flow analysis based 
upon their relative size, location, or other factors. 
Steady State Sensitivity Analysis 
The Standard requires additional Sensitivity Studies to be performed to demonstrate the impact of changes to 
the basic assumptions used in the base cases. The sensitivity selected was the availability of hydroelectric 
generation. This sensitivity was evaluated utilizing the criteria described in TPL-001-5 Table 1. The analysis was 
performed on all years of the Near-Term and Long-Term Planning Horizons using Off-Peak conditions with the 
availability of hydroelectric generation and on System Shoulder conditions, which represent 93% of System 
peak and the unavailability of hydroelectric generation. [Requirement 2 Part 2.1.4]
Steady State Equipment Sparing Analysis 
The Transmission equipment sparing strategy is reviewed annually to identify Transmission equipment 
without a spare and has a replacement lead time greater than one year. Each piece of equipment was 
individually modeled as unavailable and evaluated for P0, P1, and P2 events using System peak, Off-Peak, and 
the sensitivity cases. [Requirement 2 Part 2.1.5] 
B. Stability Analysis 
Stability studies were conducted to consider P1 - P7 Planning Events and Extreme Events in the Near-Term 
planning horizon. The simulations were made for System Peak Load conditions and for System Off-Peak load 
(approximately 50% of System peak load) conditions, for one of the five years in the Near-Term planning 
horizon. The System peak cases included a dynamic Load model which represents the expected dynamic 
behavior of induction motor Load that could impact the study area. The light System load level of 50% of 
System peak load was chosen to be the lowest load level for which base load units are running at maximum 
output - a worst case for angular stability. 
All projects resulting from Stability analysis to address any identified deficiencies have been added to the list 
of projects in Section IV B, Stability Project Details.
Table 7 Stability Transmission Planning Performance briefly describes the Transmission Planning stability 
study methodology to meet TPL-001-5 Table 1 performance requirements: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its 
contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC 
policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 34 of 304
Table 7 Stability Transmission Planning Performance Requirements (TPL-001-5 Table 1)
Category Initial Condition Event Fault 
Type
Study Performed – The CAP addresses facilities that did not meet the appropriate performance requirements
P1
Single 
Contingency
Normal System Loss of one of the following: 3Ø A study was conducted which applied a normally-cleared, three-phase fault on every transmission line (P1.2) and 
transformer (P1.3) in the SBAA. Faults on generators (P1.1) will not be as severe because fault clearing will result in 
tripping a unit which is better for stability. Faults on shunt devices (P1.4) will also not be as severe because tripping a 
shunt device does not result in weakening the System as compared to tripping a transmission line or transformer. Thus, 
P1.1 and P1.4 were not explicitly studied.
1. Generator
2. Transmission Circuit
3. Transformer 
4. Shunt Device
5. Single Pole of a DC line SLG Not applicable as HVDC lines are not currently installed in the SBAA System and no HVDC lines outside of the SBAA have 
been identified by adjacent PCs and TPs as affecting the SBAA System in the planning horizon.
P2
Single 
Contingency 
Normal System 1. Opening of a line section w/o 
a fault
N/A Opening a line end without a fault will never cause a stability concern that has not already been identified by a category 
P1 event.
2. Bus Section Fault SLG Planning events P2.2, P2.3, and P2.4 require single line to ground faults to be applied to bus sections or internal to 
breakers. These will always be less severe than a three-phase fault which will be covered by the extreme events specified 
inTPL-001-5 Table 1 Stability events 2.d and 2.e. When the three-phase faults in the extreme events result in instability, a 
solution will generally be included in the CAP. If situations should occur where the CAP is not used to address three-phase 
faults which resulted in instability, then the single line to ground fault will be investigated and appropriate corrective 
action included as needed.
3. Internal Breaker Fault 
(non-Bus-tie Breaker)
SLG
4. Internal Breaker Fault
(Bus-tie Breaker)
SLG
P3
Multiple 
Contingency
Loss of generator unit 
followed by System 
adjustments
Loss of one of the following: 3Ø The initial System condition of a generator being out of service is generally not a stability concern because less generation 
is better for transient stability. A generator out is only a potential stability concern for peak load levels in FIDVR prone 
areas and, therefore was studied only in FIDVR prone areas. 1. Generator
2. Transmission Circuit
3. Transformer 
4. Shunt Device 
5. Single pole of a DC line SLG Not applicable as HVDC lines are not currently installed in the SBAA System and no HVDC lines outside of the SBAA have 
been identified by adjacent PCs and TPs as affecting the SBAA System in the planning horizon.
P4
Multiple 
Contingency
(Fault plus 
stuck breaker)
Normal System Loss of multiple elements 
caused by a stuck breaker
(non-Bus-tie Breaker) 
attempting to clear a Fault on
one of the following:
SLG Planning events P4.1 through P4.6 require single line to ground faults to be applied to generators, Transmission circuits, 
transformers, shunt devices, and bus sections with delayed clearing due to a stuck breaker. These will always be less 
severe than a three-phase fault which will be covered by Extreme Events specified in TPL‑001-5 Table 1 Stability events 2.a 
through 2e. When a three-phase fault scenario considered in the extreme events result in instability, a solution will 
generally be included in the CAP. If a situation should occur where the CAP is not used to address three-phase faults which 
result in instability, then the single line to ground fault was investigated and the appropriate corrective action was 
included as needed.
1. Generator
2. Transmission Circuit
3. Transformer 
4. Shunt Device 
5. Bus Section
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its 
contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC 
policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 35 of 304
6. Loss of multiple elements 
caused by a stuck breaker (Bustie Breaker) attempting to clear 
a Fault on the associated bus
SLG
P5
Multiple 
Contingency
(Fault plus 
relay failure to 
operate)
Normal System Delayed Fault Clearing due to 
the failure of a
non-redundant relay protecting 
the Faulted element
to operate as designed, for one 
of the following:
SLG Planning events P5.1 through P5.5 require single-line-to-ground faults to be applied to generators, Transmission circuits, 
transformers, shunt devices, and bus sections with delayed clearing due to a relay failure. Single line to ground faults will 
be less severe than a three-phase fault which will be covered by R4.5 extreme events specified inTPL-001-5 Table 1 
Stability events 2.a through 2e. When the three-phase faults evaluated in the R4.5 extreme events resulted in instability, a 
solution was included in the CAP. In situations where the CAP was not used to address three-phase faults which resulted in 
instability, then the single line to ground fault was investigated and appropriate corrective action included as needed.
1. Generator
2. Transmission Circuit
3. Transformer 
4. Shunt Device 
5. Bus Section
P6
Multiple 
Contingency
(Two 
overlapping 
singles)
Loss of one of the 
following followed by 
System adjustments.
1. Transmission Circuit
2. Transformer
3. Shunt Device
4. Single pole of a DC line
Loss of one of the following: 3Ø Studies were performed with a Transmission element (P6.1 and P6.2) out of service at generating plants on the System. 
Then a three-phase, normally cleared fault was studied on another element at the generating plant. If the generators are 
not stable for this contingency, then a System adjustment or a CAP project was implemented to make sure that the 
generation remained stable. Faults on shunt devices (P6.3) were not as severe because tripping a shunt device does not 
result in weakening the System as compared to tripping a transmission line or transformer. Thus, P6.3 was not explicitly 
studied.
1. Transmission Circuit
2. Transformer 
3. Shunt Device
4. Single pole of a DC line SLG Not applicable as HVDC lines are not currently installed in the SBAA System and no HVDC lines outside of the SBAA have 
been identified by adjacent PCs and TPs as affecting the SBAA System in the planning horizon.
P7
Multiple 
Contingency
(Common 
Structure)
Normal System The loss of: SLG Single-line-to-ground faults will be simulated on two transmission lines at a generating plant that share a common tower 
for distances greater than one mile. The circuits to be studied were ones at generating plants which would have the most 
impact on stability. 1. Any two adjacent (vertically 
or horizontally) circuits on 
common structure 
2. Loss of a bipolar DC line Not applicable as HVDC lines are not currently utilized in the SBAA System and no HVDC lines outside of the SBAA have 
been identified by adjacent PCs and TPs as affecting the SBAA System in the planning horizon.
Extreme Events Lists of contingencies which are expected to produce more severe System impacts for extreme events were created for 
evaluation in the stability studies. These events were divided into two categories:
1. Planning events that were mitigated using specific System adjustments (resulting in temporary SOL’s for Operations). 
Those adjustments should be assumed not to have occurred. Studies were made of the consequences of having the next 
three-phase fault with normal clearing before the System adjustments are made.
2. Three-phase faults with delayed clearing due to a stuck breaker or a relay failure. These contingencies were applied to 
generators, Transmission circuits, transformers, shunt devices, and bus sections at or near generating plants. These will 
have the most severe impact to the stability of the System.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 36 of 304
Stability Past Studies 
Past studies were utilized in some situations to demonstrate that performance requirements were met. For 
each category considered (i.e., P1 - P7 and Extreme Events), past studies were evaluated per requirements 
R2.6.1 and R2.6.2 of the Standard to ensure that they met the following criteria:
• Less than five years old unless a technical rationale supporting that the results of an older study are 
still valid;
• No material changes have occurred to the System represented in the study.
All past studies utilized in the assessment met the above criteria. [Requirement 2.6.1 and 2.6.2]
Stability Sensitivity Analysis (Near-Term Planning Horizon) 
Requirement R2.4.3 of the Standard requires that additional sensitivity studies be performed to demonstrate 
the effects of various modeling assumptions used in the analysis. For the system stability studies completed, 
which used the standard base case, the following sensitivities were evaluated:
• For 50% System peak load cases, local generation was increased to maximum output.
• For System peak load cases, the percentage of induction motor load that was modeled at each bus
with a dynamic load model was increased.
For the studies in which an area generator output sensitivity was evaluated, those studies modified the output 
of the generator beyond the amount specified by the base dispatch (i.e., all generation in proximity to the 
study area was dispatched at full output whether the unit had firm service for full output or not). This study 
practice resulted in the most conservative results possible; thus, it was not necessary to study additional 
sensitivities. The sensitivity analysis revealed no new constraints. [Requirement 2.4.3]
Steady State Coordination with Adjacent Systems 
In addition to contingencies on the GA ITS system, contingencies provided by neighboring systems in 
accordance with TPL-001-5 Requirement 3.4.1 are analyzed as a part of the annual study process. These 
neighboring systems are also monitored as part of all studies to determine if any contingencies on the ITS 
system have the potential to impact them. If potential impacts to neighboring systems are identified, the 
impacted neighbor is notified of those contingencies per the requirement.
Long-Term Stability Analysis 
Stability studies were also conducted as needed in the Long-Term planning horizon to address the impact of 
material generation additions or changes in that time frame. Forecasted generation in the Long-Term 
transmission planning horizon that does not have firm service or has not been designated by an entity does 
not require a stability study. Only new generation for which a firm commitment to build has been made 
requires a unit specific stability study. [Requirement 2.5]
C. Short Circuit Analysis 
The short circuit (breaker duty) assessment was performed by Southern Company Services Protection & 
Control Applications for the Near-Term planning horizon. The base case model used for this assessment 
included all existing facilities (transmission and generation) and planned facilities based on forecasted 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 37 of 304
generation and future years’ transmission expansion plan. The real and reactive Load forecasts and known 
commitments for Firm Transmission Service and Interchange were not represented in the models as they were 
not relevant to this assessment. The study methodology for short circuit analysis employs the Breaker Duty 
Module with the CAPE Short Circuit Analysis program to calculate margin between fault interrupting device 
capability and short circuit level at that location. The short circuit currents are at the highest with maximum 
generation online and with N-0 transmission contingency. Hence, no outages are considered in this 
assessment. [Requirement 2 Part 2.3]
The assessment is conducted annually for the Near-Term planning horizon to ensure that the fault interrupting 
devices can successfully interrupt the expected short circuit currents consistent with the Standard and 
Guidelines for Short Circuit System Modeling and Short Circuit Assessment of The Southern Company Electric 
Transmission System. 
All projects resulting from that analysis to address any identified deficiencies have been added to the list of 
projects in Section IV C, Short Circuit Project Details. [Requirement 2 Parts 2.3, 2.6 and 2.8]
D. Interface Transfer Capability Assessments 
The transfer capability assessments are used to identify transmission facilities that may potentially limit the 
ITS Participants ability to maintain its long-term firm obligations across the SBAA interfaces. Linear transfer 
analysis is performed to simulate an incremental transfer in addition to firm transactions already modeled in 
the base cases. To reduce sensitivities to local generation dispatch issues, each transfer is simulated by scaling 
load uniformly in the participating areas. Transfer Distribution Factors (TDFs) are considered in evaluating 
potential limitations to transfers across each interface. In the identification of limiting facilities, known and 
applicable System Operating Limits (“SOLs”) are respected. The assumptions, description of system models, 
summary of each interface’s transfer capability limitations and resulting projects are detailed in a report that 
is provided to Transmission Planning for inclusion in the results of this document. 
The interfaces of the SBAA are evaluated annually as part of the transmission planning process. The analysis is 
performed to ensure that the Southern Balancing Authority can meet all long-term, firm transmission 
commitments and reliability reserve margins.
All projects resulting from that analysis to address any identified deficiencies have been added to the list of 
projects in Section IV D, Interface Transfer Capability Project Details.
Northern Interface 
For the Northern interfaces of MISO, TVA, Duke Energy, Santee Cooper, and Dominion Energy – South 
Carolina, transferring power across one interface may mutually impact the ability to transfer power across 
other interfaces. Therefore, transfer capability assessments for the “northern” interfaces of the SBAA are 
evaluated in such a way as to ensure not only that there is sufficient transfer capability to accommodate all 
firm transactions across a particular interface, but also that there is sufficient transfer capability to 
accommodate all firm obligations simultaneously across all the “northern” interfaces. Furthermore, the 
assessments consider potential “netting” impacts. If “netting” transfers (transfers of opposing flow) are 
allowed to remain in the assessment cases, potential problems may be masked in certain real-time situations 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 38 of 304
when the transfers of opposing flow are not scheduled. Therefore, these opposing flow transfers may be 
removed to ensure that the most conservative screens are performed.
Florida Interface 
The SBAA – FRCC interface consists of ties with multiple companies within FRCC: Florida Power and Light 
Company (FPL), DUKE Energy of Florida (DEF), Jacksonville Electric Authority (JEA), and the City of Tallahassee 
(TAL); collectively “Florida.” It is important to note that the Florida interface is fundamentally radial from the 
SBAA and the transmission facilities in the connecting balancing authorities have a high-level of 
interdependence. To ensure the most conservative screens are performed, impacts from “netting” are 
considered in the same manner as the Northern Interface. 
 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 39 of 304
IV. ANALYSIS RESULTS 
A. Operating Guides 
The use of operating guides is, in many cases, a viable alternative to making system improvements. In 
considering the use of an operating guide, operator action time as well as procedure complexity must be 
assessed when considering the overall effectiveness to correct the specific problem. If, for any reason, the use 
of an operating guide results in a violation of the aforementioned risk assessment factors, then the operating 
guide is not used.
Since risk and complexity are factors that the system operator will have to deal with when an operating guide 
is necessary, all operating guides that Transmission Planning identifies, and tests are reviewed by Georgia 
Power Transmission Operations Department. The only exception to this is if an operating guide is developed 
for use in the future after significant system upgrades have been made and Operations cannot replicate the 
projected system conditions. All operating guides are re-evaluated with each planning cycle to determine if 
they are still appropriate or should be replaced with a project, and if a project is more appropriate that there 
is sufficient time to get the project installed. 
The following table lists the thermal and voltage operating guides which were used in the development of the 
ten-year plan.
Table 8 Thermal and Voltage Operating Guides
Line Name (Breaker to Breaker) OG 
Start Date
OG 
End Date Operating Guide Procedure
Albany Area Operating Guide 6/1/2029 6/1/2030 REDACTED
Americus - Thrill Hill 115kV Operating 
Guide
6/1/2025 6/1/2030 REDACTED
Anniston - Hammond 230kV Operating 
Guide
6/1/2029 6/1/2030 REDACTED
REDACTED
Arkwright - Forrest Road 115KV Operating 
Guide (Pre-Contingency) 
6/1/2027 6/1/2028 REDACTED
REDACTED
Arkwright-Lloyd Shoals 115kV line 
Operating Guide (Pre-Contingency)
6/1/2025 6/1/2026 REDACTED
REDACTED
Arlington Area 115kV Operating Guide 6/1/2029 6/1/2030 REDACTED
REDACTED
Athena - Union Point Primary 115kV 
Operating Guide
6/1/2026 6/1/2027 REDACTED
REDACTED
Atkinson - Northside Dr 115kV Operating 
Guide
6/1/2028 6/1/2030 REDACTED
REDACTED
Atkinson – Northwest 115kV Operating 
Guide
6/1/2028 6/1/2030 REDACTED
Augusta Corporate Park - Vogtle 230kV 
Operating Guide
6/1/2026 6/1/2027 REDACTED
Aultman Road-Perry 115kV Operating 
Guide (Pre-Contingency)
6/1/2027 6/1/2029 REDACTED
Avalon Junction - Pooles Creek - Bio 115kV 
Operating Guide
6/1/2025 6/1/2029 REDACTED
REDACTED
Banks Crossing - Pond Fork 115kV 
Operating Guide
6/1/2025 6/1/2026 REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 40 of 304
Line Name (Breaker to Breaker) OG 
Start Date
OG 
End Date Operating Guide Procedure
Barnesville Primary - South Griffin 115kV 
Operating Guide
6/1/2025 6/1/2027 REDACTED
Barnesville Primary - Thomaston 230kv 
Operating Guide (Pre-Contingency)
6/1/2029 6/1/2030 REDACTED
Baxley - Jesup 115kV Operating Guide 6/1/2025 12/31/2025 REDACTED
REDACTED
Bay Creek - Conyers 230kV Operating 
Guide
6/1/2025 6/1/2027 REDACTED
REDACTED
Bay Creek - Monroe 115kV Operating 
guide
6/1/2027 6/1/2029 REDACTED
REDACTED
Bay Creek - Moon Road 115kV Operating 
Guide
6/1/2026 6/1/2027 REDACTED
REDACTED
Bio - Center Primary 230kV Operating 
Guide
6/1/2025 6/1/2030 REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
Blankets Creek - Woodstock 115 kV 
Operating Guide (Pre-Contingency)
6/1/2025 6/1/2026 REDACTED
Branch - Tiger Creek (Black) 230KV 
Operating Guide
6/1/2026 6/1/2027 REDACTED
REDACTED
Branch - Tiger Creek (White) 230KV 
Operating Guide
6/1/2026 6/1/2027 REDACTED
REDACTED
Cartersville - Hill View 230kV Operating 
Guide
6/1/2027 6/1/2028 REDACTED
Center Primary - Commerce Primary 
115kV Operating Guide (pre-contingency)
6/1/2027 6/1/2029 REDACTED
REDACTED
Conyers - Klondike 230kV Operating Guide 6/1/2026 6/1/2027 REDACTED
Corn Crib - Lagrange 115kV Operating 
Guide
6/1/2028 6/1/2029 REDACTED
REDACTED
Cornelia - Tallulah Lodge 115kV Operating 
Guide
6/1/2028 6/1/2029 REDACTED
Daisy - West Valdosta Operating Guide 6/1/2025 6/1/2027 REDACTED
Dawson Crossing - Gainesville #1 
Operating Guide
6/1/2026 6/1/2027 REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
Dawson Crossing - Nelson (White) 115kV 
Operating Guide
6/1/2025 6/1/2029 REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
Dresden - LaGrange 230kV Operating 
Guide
6/1/2028 6/1/2029 REDACTED
REDACTED
East Social Circle - East Watkinsville 230kV 
Operating Guide
6/1/2027 6/1/2028 REDACTED
REDACTED
East Watkinsville - Russel Dam 230kV 
Operating Guide
6/1/2025 6/1/2029 REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 41 of 304
Line Name (Breaker to Breaker) OG 
Start Date
OG 
End Date Operating Guide Procedure
East Watkinsville 230/115kV Bank A 
Operating Guide
6/1/2025 6/1/2027 REDACTED
Eatonton AB - Newborn Rd 230KV 
Operating Guide
6/1/2028 6/1/2029 REDACTED
Evans Primary - Thomson Primary 115kV 
Operating Guide
6/1/2025 6/1/2027 REDACTED
REDACTED
First Avenue - North Columbus 115kV 
Operating Guide (Pre-Contingency)
6/1/2026 6/1/2030 REDACTED
REDACTED
Fortson - Lagrange 230kV Operating Guide 6/1/2025 6/1/2028 REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
Fortson - Talbot 230kV Operating Guide 6/1/2029 6/1/2030 REDACTED
Fortson - Goat Rock 230kV (White) 
Operating Guide
6/1/2029 6/1/2030 REDACTED
REDACTED
Fortson - Goat Rock 230kV (Black) 
Operating Guide
6/1/2029 6/1/2030 REDACTED
REDACTED
Gainesville #2 - McEver Road 115kV 
Operating Guide
6/1/2029 6/1/2030 REDACTED
REDACTED
Glenwood Springs 321318 – Lake Oconee 
115kV Operating Guide
6/1/2025 6/1/2029 REDACTED
REDACTED
Gordon-North Dublin 115kV Operating 
Guide (Pre-Contingency)
6/1/2025 6/1/2026 REDACTED
Goshen - Vogtle 230kV Operating Guide 6/1/2026 6/1/2027 REDACTED
Hercules - Porterdale Primary 115kV
Operating Guide (Pre-Contingency)
6/2/2026 6/2/2027 REDACTED
REDACTED
Jefferson Road - Winder Primary 115kV 
Operating Guide
6/1/2027 6/1/2029 REDACTED
REDACTED
Jonesboro - Ohara 230kV Operating Guide 6/1/2025 6/1/2027 REDACTED
REDACTED
Kathleen 230/115kV Operating Guide 6/1/2027 6/1/2028 REDACTED
REDACTED
Kawikee - South Columbus 115kV 
Operating Guide
6/1/2029 6/1/2030 REDACTED
Kettle Creek Primary - Pine Grove Primary 
115kV Operating Guide (Pre-Contingency)
6/1/2025 6/1/2030 REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
Klondike - Scherer 500kV Operating Guide 6/1/2026 6/1/2027 REDACTED
REDACTED
Kraft 230/115 kV Bank B Operating Guide 6/1/2025 6/1/2029 REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
Lizard Lope Area 115kV Operating Guide 6/1/2029 6/1/2030 REDACTED
Lloyd Shoals - Porterdale Primary 115kV 
Operating Guide
6/1/2026 6/1/2027 REDACTED
REDACTED
Lloyd Shoals - Porterdale Primary 115kV 
Operating Guide (Pre-contingency)
6/1/2025 6/1/2029 REDACTED
REDACTED
McDonough - South Griffin 115kV 
Operating Guide
6/1/2027 6/1/2028 REDACTED
REDACTED
McEver Road - Shoal Creek 115kV 
Operating Guide (Pre-Contingency)
6/1/2026 6/1/2029 REDACTED
REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 42 of 304
Line Name (Breaker to Breaker) OG 
Start Date
OG 
End Date Operating Guide Procedure
Mcintosh 230/115 kV Bank A Operating 
Guide
6/1/2028 6/1/2029 REDACTED
McManus - West Brunswick 115 kV 
Operating Guide
6/1/2026 6/1/2028 REDACTED
REDACTED
Mitchell - North Tifton 230kV Operating 
Guide
6/1/2025 6/1/2025 REDACTED
REDACTED
Mitchell - Raccoon Creek 230kV Operating 
Guide
6/1/2025 6/1/2030 REDACTED
REDACTED
Raccoon Creek - Scooter 230kV Operating 
Guide
6/1/2025 6/1/2030 REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
Ray Place Road - Warrenton Primary 
115kV Operating Guide
6/1/2025 6/1/2027 REDACTED
REDACTED
Sandersville-Wadley 115kV line Operating 
Guide
6/1/2025 6/1/2027 REDACTED
Sinai (FP&L) - South Bainbridge 115kV 
Operating Guide (Pre-contingency)
6/1/2027 6/1/2030 REDACTED
REDACTED
South Macon 230/115kV Bank D 
Operating Guide (Pre-contingency)
6/1/2025 6/1/2027 REDACTED
REDACTED
South Macon 230/115kV Bank F 
Operating Guide (Pre-contingency)
6/1/2025 6/1/2027 REDACTED
REDACTED
Tallulah Lodge - Toccoa 115kV Operating 
Guide
6/1/2027 6/1/2029 REDACTED
REDACTED
Thomaston 230/115kV Transformer Bank 
C Operating Guide
6/1/2025 6/1/2030 REDACTED
REDACTED
Thomaston 230/115kV Transformer Bank 
D Operating Guide
6/1/2028 6/1/2029 REDACTED
REDACTED
Thomson Primary 230/115kV Bank C 
Operating Guide
6/1/2025 6/1/2027 REDACTED
REDACTED
Union City - Yates (White) 230kV 
Operating Guide
6/1/2025 6/1/2026 REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
West Mcintosh 500/230 kV Bank A 
Operating Guide
6/1/2025 6/1/2025 REDACTED
West Mcintosh 500/230 kV Bank B 
Operating Guide
6/1/2025 6/1/2025 REDACTED
 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 43 of 304
B. Stability Project Details 
The following group of projects are the result of the Stability studies conducted as needed in the Long-Term 
Planning Horizon to address the impact of material generation additions or changes for the TPL-001-5 Table 1. 
The following information is included for each project: 
1) project justification, 
2) schedule for implementation (start date), and 
3) expected required in-service date. 
For transmission improvements, the start date is to provide necessary lead time to ensure the expected 
required in-service date can be met. 
 
 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 44 of 304
THALMANN AND COLERAIN 23O KV LINE RELAY PANEL UPGRADES
Teams # 21046
Need Date 06/01/2025 Start Date 12/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Relay protection modifications at GPC's Thalmann and Colerain substations to match relay scheme 
used at GTC's new Camden Industrial Park 230/115kV substation.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 45 of 304
ANTHONY SHOALS STATCOM SYSTEM
Teams # 20326
Need Date 12/31/2025 Start Date 08/04/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Install a + 150 / - 150 MVAR turnkey STATCOM system at Anthony Shoals 230kV substation.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 46 of 304
SAV: LITTLE OGEECHEE 230-115KV: RELAY MODERNIZATION
Teams # 17075
Need Date 12/31/2025 Start Date 06/01/2022
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Relay modernization with conversion of the 230kV ring bus to BAAH topology and addition of BAAH 
rung for Big Ogeechee - Little Ogeechee (Red) 230kV Line. Rebuild 115kV straight bus to BAAH 
design.
REDACTED
Project delayed in 2025
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 47 of 304
EAST POINT RELAY MODERNIZATION
Teams # 20491
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 01/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Upgrade protection on 230kV buses, 115kV buses, and 230/115kV auto transformer at the East Point 
station. Add adequate monitoring on DC supply.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 48 of 304
GRADY 230/115KV RELAY MODERNIZATION
Teams # 20474
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 01/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Upgrade protection on 230kV bus, all 115kV buses, and both 230/115kV auto transformers at Grady. 
Add adequate monitoring on DC supply. Install a 230kV breaker and associated switches on the high 
side of Grady 230/115kV auto transformer D.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 49 of 304
KLONDIKE RELAY MODERNIZATION
Teams # 20490
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 01/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Upgrade protection on 230kV buses at the Klondike station. Add adequate monitoring on DC supply.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 50 of 304
MORROW 115KV RELAY UPGRADE
Teams # 20300
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 06/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Upgrade protection scheme on all three 115kV buses at Morrow.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 51 of 304
SCOTTDALE RELAY MODERNIZATION
Teams # 20489
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 01/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Upgrade protection on 230kV bus and 230/115kV auto transformers at the Scottdale station. Add 
adequate monitoring on DC supply.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 52 of 304
DRESDEN LINE PROTECTIVE RELAYING
Teams # 20668
Need Date 12/01/2026 Start Date 12/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
On the O'Hara - Wansley 500kV line, replace the protective relay panels associated with the 500kV 
line terminal facing Dresden, at both O'Hara and Wansley.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 53 of 304
MEAG: FORTSON SUBSTATION MODERNIZATION
Teams # 18832
Need Date 01/13/2027 Start Date 01/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Complete modernization and replacement of obsolete equipment and relays for the 500kV, 230kV, 
and 115kV yards. Add a redundant relay scheme at Fortson.
REDACTED
Project delayed from 2025 to 2027
Project delayed from 2024 to 2027
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 54 of 304
C. Short Circuit Project Details 
The following group of projects are the result of the Short Circuit analyses performed by the Southern 
company Services Protection and Control Department. 
The following information is included for each project: 
1) project justification, 
2) schedule for implementation (start date), and 
3) expected required in-service date. 
For transmission improvements, the start date is to provide necessary lead time to ensure the expected 
required in-service date can be met. 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 
 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 55 of 304
OHARA BREAKER REPLACEMENT
Teams # 21022
Need Date 10/01/2026 Start Date 10/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
 
Replace Breaker on the Ohara - Tara 115kV Line at the Ohara Substation. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 56 of 304
D. Interface Transfer Capability Project Details 
The following projects are the result of the Interface Transfer Capability Assessments analyses performed by 
the Southern Company Services Transmission Planning OATT Studies & Regional Planning Department. 
The following information is included for each project: 
1) project justification, 
2) schedule for implementation (start date), and 
3) expected required in-service date. 
For transmission improvements, the start date is to provide necessary lead time to ensure the expected 
required in-service date can be met. 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 57 of 304
SAV: MCINTOSH - PURRYSBURG 230KV REACTORS
Teams # 20277
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 01/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Install reactors on the McIntosh - Purrysburg (Black and White) 230kV tie lines at McIntosh. Rebuild 
0.1 miles (GPC portion) for both lines to (2) 200C 1351 ACSS conductor.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 58 of 304
GTC: HARTWELL DAM - HARTWELL ENERGY 230KV SERIES REACTORS
Teams # 21111
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 06/01/2027
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
GTC: Replace the 1600A series reactors on the Hartwell Dam - Hartwell Energy 230kV line with 
3000A. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 59 of 304
GTC: HARTWELL ENERGY - MIDDLE FORK 230KV LINE
Teams # 21113
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 06/01/2027
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Construct a new 230kV line, approx. 35 miles, from Hartwell Energy to Middle Fork with 200C (2) 
1351 ACSS conductor. GTC: Expand Hartwell Energy 230kV and Middle Fork 230kV as necessary to 
install breakers to accept new line termination. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 60 of 304
E. Steady State Project Details 
The following projects are the result of the Steady State analyses for the TPL-001-5 Table 1 Category P0, P1, 
and P2.3 EHV Planning Events in both the near-term and longer-term planning horizons for both peak and offpeak loading models.
The following information is included for each project: 
1) project justification, 
2) schedule for implementation (start date), and 
3) expected required in-service date. 
For transmission improvements, the start date is to provide necessary lead time to ensure the expected 
required in-service date can be met. 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 61 of 304
SAV: CC - HYUNDAI MOTORS SAVANNAH AKA. PROJECT EA
Teams # 19523
Need Date 04/25/2025 Start Date 06/01/2022
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Construct a new Hyundai 230kV substation with an eight element 230kV ring bus and four 230/25kV 
banks. Construct a new Newton Rd 230kV substation with a five element 230kV ring bus and loop 
through the Little Ogeechee - Meldrim Black and White 230kV lines. Build two new 230kV lines 
connecting from Hyundai - Newton Rd (12 miles) and Hyundai - Meldrim (10 miles). At Meldrim, add 
a breaker to accommodate for the new Hyundai line. Install a 115/25kV bank at Interstate Centre 
and build a new 115kV line from Interstate Centre - Hyundai (2.3 miles) for bridge power.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 62 of 304
GTC: BANKS CROSSING - POND FORK 115 KV
Teams # 18670
Need Date 05/01/2025 Start Date 06/01/2021
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
GTC will build a new 115kV line from McClure Industrial to structure 21N on the Ridgeway Church 
Road Junction or tap point (approximately 3 miles). Close normally open switch at Ridgeway Church 
Road to establish the Banks Crossing - Pond Fork 115kV line. All new conductors should be 100C 
1351 ACSR Martin.
REDACTED
Project advanced in 2025
Project delayed from 2024 to 2025
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 63 of 304
MITCHELL - NORTH TIFTON 230KV RECONDUCTOR
Teams # 18492
Need Date 05/01/2025 Start Date 12/31/2021
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild 35.21 miles of the Mitchell - North Tifton 230kV line from 100C 795 ACSR to 100C 1351 
ACSR.
REDACTED
Project advanced in 2025
Project delayed from 2024 to 2025
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 64 of 304
ADAMSVILLE - JACK MCDONOUGH 230KV LINE REBUILD
Teams # 19676
Need Date 06/01/2025 Start Date 06/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the entire 6.1 mile Adamsville - Jack McDonough 230kV line with 160C 1351 ACSS.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 65 of 304
ECHECONNEE-WELLSTON 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 18800
Need Date 06/01/2025 Start Date 01/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the South Warner Robins to Wellston section (1.2 miles) with 100C 1351.5 ACSR Martin 
conductor.
REDACTED
No Change
No Change
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 66 of 304
GRID - BREMEN - CROOKED CREEK (APC) 115 KV PROJECT
Teams # 19187
Need Date 06/01/2025 Start Date 09/01/2021
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild from Bremen to Indian Creek Road, on the Bremen - Crooked Creek 115kV line (14 miles), 
using 795 ACSR conductor at 100C.
REDACTED
Project delayed from 2024 to 2025
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 67 of 304
GTC: BONAIRE PRI-ECHECONNEE 115 KV PARTIAL REBUILD
Teams # 18153
Need Date 06/01/2025 Start Date 01/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild 2.3 miles of the Bonaire Primary - Echeconnee 115kV line with 100C ACSR 795 conductor.
REDACTED
No Change
Project advanced from 2030 to 2025
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 68 of 304
GTC: CAMDEN INDUSTRIAL PARK 230/115KV NEW SUBSTATION
Teams # 20342
Need Date 06/01/2025 Start Date 01/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
GTC will construct a new 230/115kV substation with a three element 230kV ring bus, two element 
115kV ring bus, and one new 230/115kV 400MVA transformer. A new 115kV line to Kinlaw 
substation will be built also.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 69 of 304
GTC: EATONTON PRIMARY - LICK CREEK 115KV LINE SWITCH REPLACEMENT
Teams # 20590
Need Date 06/01/2025 Start Date 12/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Replace a 1200A RLB line switch on the Eatonton - Lake Oconee 115kV line with a with motor 
operator and SCADA controls. This switch is located on GTC's Eatonton Primary - Lick Creek 115kV 
section of the Eatonton Primary - Lake Oconee 115kV Line.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 70 of 304
JESUP - LUDOWICI PRIMARY 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 11821
Need Date 06/01/2025 Start Date 06/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild approximately 7.5 miles of the Jesup - North Jesup - Rayonier section of the Jesup - Ludowici 
Primary 115kV line from 100C 336.4 ACSR Linnet conductor to 100C 795 ACSR Drake conductor.
REDACTED
No Change
Project delayed from 2024 to 2025
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 71 of 304
MEAG: ALCOVY ROAD - SKC 115 KV RECONDUCTOR
Teams # 13753
Need Date 06/01/2025 Start Date 06/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
MEAG will reconductor approximately 0.53 miles of 100C 336 ACSR conductor with 100C 1033 ACSR 
conductor from Alcovy Road to Alcovy Road Jct. on the Alcovy Road - SKC 115kV line.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 72 of 304
MEAG: AULTMAN ROAD - BONAIRE PRIMARY 115 KV REBUILD
Teams # 13787
Need Date 06/01/2025 Start Date 06/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
MEAG: Rebuild approximately 1.99 miles of Sleepy Hollow - Peach Blossom 115kV section of the 
Aultman Road - Bonaire Primary 115kV line from 100C 336 ACSR to 100C 795 ACSR.
GTC: Replace the jumpers at Sleepy Hollow with 1590 AAC.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 73 of 304
NORCROSS 230KV BUS 1-3 SERIES BUS TIE BREAKER INSTALLATION
Teams # 20464
Need Date 06/01/2025 Start Date 11/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Install a bus tie breaker in series with existing bus tie breaker between 230kV Bus 1 and Bus 3 at 
Norcross.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 74 of 304
PINE GROVE PRIMARY 115 KV DUAL STAGE CAPACITOR BANK 
Teams # 19631
Need Date 06/01/2025 Start Date 11/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Install a Dual Stage 30MVAR capacitor bank at Pine Grove Primary.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 75 of 304
SAV: DEPTFORD - MAGNOLIA 115KV RECONDUCTOR
Teams # 20067
Need Date 06/01/2025 Start Date 01/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Reconductor the Deptford - Magnolia 115kV line (approximately 5 miles) using 973.1 C7 ACCS 
(Everglades) conductor and upgrade the Deptford main bus.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 76 of 304
SMART VALVE INSTALLATION
Teams # 20466
Need Date 06/01/2025 Start Date 10/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Installation of Smart Valve devices inside the Eatonton Primary substation on the Branch - Oasis 
230kV and Eatonton Primary - Oasis 230kV lines.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 77 of 304
VILLA RICA LOW SIDE BREAKER
Teams # 20431
Need Date 06/01/2025 Start Date 06/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Replace a low side breaker at Villa Rica with a 4000A breaker.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 78 of 304
CAMDEN INDUSTRIAL PARK (GPC)
Teams # 20684
Need Date 06/30/2025 Start Date 01/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
This project will loop in GPC's existing Colerain to Thalman 230kV line into GTC's new Camden 
Industrial Park station. GPC's Kingsland termination at GTC's Kinlaw sub will be relocated to a new 
115kV bay position.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 79 of 304
GTC: HEARD COUNTY - TENASKA 500KV (SECOND LINE)
Teams # 18774
Need Date 12/01/2025 Start Date 12/01/2021
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
GTC: Build a second Heard County - Tenaska 500kV line, 0.8 miles, with 100C (3) 1113 ACSR Bluejay 
conductors. Add a 500kV breaker at Heard County. 
GPC: Add a 500kV breaker at Tenaska.
REDACTED
Project delayed from 2024 to 2025
Project delayed from 2024 to 2025
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 80 of 304
JEFFERSON STREET#3 - NORTHWEST (WHITE) 115 KV RECONDUCTOR
Teams # 18889
Need Date 12/01/2025 Start Date 01/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the 115kV White line from Northwest to Jefferson Street #3 (1.2 miles) with 200C 1351 ACSS 
conductor.
REDACTED
No Change
Project advanced from 2030 to 2025
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 81 of 304
CC - CASS PINE- HILL VIEW 230 KV LINE- CC IMPROVEMENTS
Teams # 20152
Need Date 12/31/2025 Start Date 06/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Build a new 7.58 mile 200C 1351 ACSS conductor 230kV line between new Cass Pine and Hill View 
230kV substations.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 82 of 304
CC - PROJECT CHRONOS- SK/HYUNDAI
Teams # 20175
Need Date 12/31/2025 Start Date 07/31/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
GPC will build a 230/25kV station named Two Run Ranch and loop it into the Cartersville - Pinson 
230kV line to serve SK Battery/Hyundai and new load in the area.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 83 of 304
GTC: ANTHONY SHOALS - WASHINGTON 115 KV LINE REBUILD
Teams # 20010
Need Date 12/31/2025 Start Date 01/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild 21 miles of the Double Branches Junction - Washington 115kV line section with 100C 795 
ACSR conductor or higher rated conductor.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 84 of 304
GTC: LIZARD LOPE - WESTOVER 115 KV NEW LINE
Teams # 18691
Need Date 03/01/2026 Start Date 06/01/2021
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Construct two new 115kV stations, Lizard Lope and Westover, and build a new 19.8 miles of 115kV 
line from Lizard Lope to Gillionville
REDACTED
Project delayed from 2025 to 2026
Project delayed from 2024 to 2026. Previously titled "GTC: Gillionville - Greenhouse 115kV Line"
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 85 of 304
CC - QTS FAYETTEVILLE TRANSMISSION NEEDS
Teams # 20018
Need Date 04/01/2026 Start Date 06/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Build a new 500/230kV substation (Ashley Park) splitting the Ohara - Union City 500kV line. Install 
two 500/230kV auto transformers at the Ashley Park station. At Ashley Park, the 500kV side will be a 
4 - breaker ring bus, while the 230kV side will be a 2 - rung Breaker and a Half configuration. Build 
two new 230kV lines (~6 miles each) from Ashley Park to the high side of customer substations. The 
new lines will be built with bundled 200C 1351 ACSS Martin conductor.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 86 of 304
ADAMSVILLE - BUZZARD ROOST 230KV REBUILD AND JUMPER UPGRADE
Teams # 19597
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 06/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the line sections from Adamsville to Boat Rock Road (8.08 miles) on the Adamsville - Buzzard 
Roost 230kV line with 200C 1351 ACSS Martin conductor. Replace the AAC 750 jumper on the line at 
Adamsville with (2) 1590 AAC jumper. Replace 1590 AAC jumpers at Bakers Ferry and Boat Rock with 
(2) 1590 AAC jumpers. Replace 1600A line switches at Boat Rock with 3000A switches.
REDACTED
Project advanced from 2027 to 2026
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 87 of 304
BLANKETS CREEK – WOODSTOCK 115KV LINE REBUILD
Teams # 18960
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the entire Blankets Creek - Woodstock 115kV line, approximately 7.1 miles, with 200C 795 
ACSS conductor.
REDACTED
No Change
No Change
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 88 of 304
CC - GARRETT ROAD SWITCHING STATION - TRAE LANE
Teams # 20243
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 04/30/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Build the new Garrett Road 230kV switching station (three - element ring bus) splitting the Villa Rica -
West Marietta 230kV line. Build a new 230kV line (8.6 miles) from the Trae Lane substation to the 
Garrett Road switching station with bundled 100C 1351 ACSR conductor.
REDACTED
Project delayed from 2025 to 2026
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 89 of 304
CC - STONEWALL TELL ROAD (TA REALTY)
Teams # 20216
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 01/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Build 230kV line segment, using 200C 1351 ACSS Martin conductor, to loop in the Stonewall Tell 
Road (TA Realty) customer station into the East Point - Union City 230kV Black line.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 90 of 304
DU: EAST DALTON - OOSTANAULA 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 18679
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 06/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
DU: Rebuild the portion of East Dalton - Oostanaula and Dalton - East Dalton 115kV double circuit 
lines between East Dalton substation and the Dalton substation frame with 200C 795 ACSS.
REDACTED
No Change
Project delayed from 2023 to 2026. Project previously listed under TEAMS #18851.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 91 of 304
FENWICK STREET - SAND BAR FERRY 115KV (RECONDUCTOR/REBUILD)
Teams # 16007
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 09/01/2022
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Reconductor approximately 2.72 miles of transmission line from Fenwick St to East Augusta Jct. with 
100C 1351 ACSR conductor.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 92 of 304
GOAT ROCK 230KV SWITCH, JUMPER, & LINE TRAP REPLACEMENT
Teams # 20516
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 01/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Replace the 230kV 1200A switch with 3000A, 90C 1351.5 ACSR Martin jumper with (2) AAC 1590, 
and 1600A line trap with 3000A (part of the Goat Rock - North Opelika 230kV line at Goat Rock 
substation.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 93 of 304
GORDON-N DUBLIN 115KV (GORDON-ENGL MCI J) REBUILD
Teams # 19618
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 10/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the Gordon - Engelhard McIntyre J of the Gordon - North Dublin 115kV line from 100C 336.4 
ACSR (2.81 miles) Linnet and 75C 4/0 F Copper/CW (3.18 miles) to 200C ACSS 795 conductor.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 94 of 304
GRADY - MORROW (WHITE) 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 21139
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 06/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Replace 0.72 miles of conductor from Moreland Way to Morrow including the bus and jumper at 
Moreland Way with 1351.5 Martin/ACSS 54/19 conductor. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 95 of 304
GRID - GAINESVILLE #2 EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT
Teams # 19706
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 12/31/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
GPC: Replace the two 230/115kV auto transformers (Bank C and D) at Gainesville #2 with 400MVA. 
Project was originally maintenance driven but now compliance driven.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 96 of 304
GTC: CONYERS - CORNISH MOUNTAIN 115KV LINE UPGRADE
Teams # 21137
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Upgrade 750 jumpers at North Conyers and raise the temperature rating of the 636 ACSR conductor 
on the Conyers - Cornish MTN 115kV line from 100C to 125C. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 97 of 304
GTC: LAGRANGE - NORTH OPELIKA 230 KV
Teams # 19334
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 06/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Build a new Lagrange - North Opelika (APC) 230kV line, 29.4 miles, with 100C ACSR 1351.5 Martin 
Conductor. GTC will construct the ~15 - mile section from Lagrange to the Metering Station near the 
Georgia - Alabama border. The Metering Station will be owned by GTC. GPC will construct the short 
line section from the Metering Station to the GA - AL state line. APC will construct the 230kV line 
from the GA - AL state line to North Opelika.
REDACTED
No Change
Project advanced from 2027
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 98 of 304
GTC: MORNING HORNET 2ND 230/115 KV BANK & THUMBS UP 115KV TL
Teams # 20015
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 06/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
GTC to add a second 230/115kV auto transformer at Morning Hornet substation. Also, build an 
additional 115kV line from Morning Hornet to Thumbs Up, approximately 2.4 miles, using at least 
100C 1351 ACSR conductor.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 99 of 304
GTC: ROBINS SPRING BUS REPLACEMENT
Teams # 19999
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 06/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
GTC: Replace the main 115kV bus 90C ACSR 336.4 Linnet conductor with higher rating.
REDACTED
Project delayed from 2025 to 2026
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 100 of 304
GTC: ROBINS SPRING CAPACITOR BANK INSTALLATION
Teams # 20001
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 01/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Install a 115kV 2 - stage 22.5MVAR (45MVAR total) capacitor bank at Robins Spring
REDACTED
Project delayed from 2025 to 2026
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 101 of 304
HAMMOND - WEISS DAM 115KV LINE REBUILD
Teams # 19636
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 06/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild 11.2 miles of Hammond - Weiss Dam 115kV from Hammond to the APC border with 200C 
795 ACSS.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 102 of 304
KATHLEEN AREA IMPROVEMENTS
Teams # 20512
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 01/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the Kathleen - Big Grocery Creek 230kV line (approximately 1.5 miles). 
Rebuild the Bonaire Primary - Kathleen 230kV line (approximately 6 miles). 
Upgrade limiting elements at Kathleen substation.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 103 of 304
MEAG: DRESDEN - LAGRANGE PRIMARY 230KV UPGRADE & JUMPERS
Teams # 19598
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 06/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
MEAG will re-sag the Dresden - LaGrange Primary 230kV line to 125C. Replace the jumpers at 
Dresden and LaGrange with (2) 1590 AAC jumpers.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 104 of 304
MEAG: RAY PLACE RD - WASHINGTON #3
Teams # 20270
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 01/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the Ray Place Rd - Washington 115kV line with 100C 795 ACSR conductor (total 17.4 Miles) 
between Ray Place Rd and Washington 2. Replace Jumpers and bus at Washington 2.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 105 of 304
MEAG: RAY PLACE RD - WASHINGTON (WASHINGTON - WASHINGTON 3)
Teams # 20271
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
MEAG will rebuild the Ray Place Rd - Washington 115kV line with 100C 1351 ACSR conductor (total 
1.2 Miles) between Washington and Washington 3. Replace jumpers at Washington.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 106 of 304
PALMYRA REACTOR REMOVAL
Teams # 18690
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 05/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Remove the 6% reactor at the Palmyra Substation.
REDACTED
Project delayed from 2025 to 2026
Project delayed from 2024 to 2026
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 107 of 304
SAV: BOULEVARD - DEPTFORD 115KV RECONDUCTOR
Teams # 20066
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Reconductor the Boulevard - Deptford 115kV line (approximately 8 miles) using 973.1 C7 ACCS 
(Everglades) conductor. Upgrade main bus and jumpers at Bolton substation from 90C 1590 AAC 
Coreopsis to 90C (2)1590 AAC Coreopsis or higher rated equipment.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 108 of 304
SAV: CC - BIG OGEECHEE 500/230KV (CC NETWORK IMPROVEMENTS)
Teams # 19966
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 06/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Construct a new substation near Little Ogeechee, adjacent to the 500kV and 230kV shared right of 
way for McCall Road - Thalmann 500kV and the Little Ogeechee - Meldrim 230kV Black and White 
lines. The new substation will loop in the existing McCall Road - Thalmann 500kV line, the existing 
Little Ogeechee - Meldrim 230kV lines, and accommodate a new 1344MVA 500/230kV auto 
transformers with an additional 230kV connection to Little Ogeechee.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 109 of 304
UNION CITY - YATES 230 KV WHITE LINE REBUILD
Teams # 17900
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 06/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild 23.4 miles of the Union City - Yates 230kV White line with bundled 1351 ACSS Martin 
conductor at 200C.
REDACTED
Delayed in 2026.
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 110 of 304
UNION CITY - YATES 230KV (WHITE) SWITCH AND TRAP REPLACEMENT
Teams # 20691
Need Date 06/01/2026 Start Date 05/15/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Replace the limiting elements at Union City and Yates substations along the Union City - Yates 230kV 
(White) line.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 111 of 304
CC - PROJECT PAYTON BAINBRIDGE
Teams # 20223
Need Date 06/30/2026 Start Date 06/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Split Farley - South Bainbridge 230kV line with a 230kV station (Dothan Road) and bring an 8.5 mile 
200C 1351 ACSS 230kV line from Dothan Rd to new customer sub Downrange. Bring another 10mile 
200C 1351 ACSS 230kV line from Climax to customer sub Downrange.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 112 of 304
GTC: BARNESVILLE PRIMARY-BARNESVILLE #1 115KV RECONDUCTOR
Teams # 20874
Need Date 12/01/2026 Start Date 06/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild approximately 4.53 miles of the Barnesville Primary - Barnesville #1 segment on the 
Barnesville Primary - Lamar County Industrial 115kV line.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 113 of 304
GTC: DRESDEN 500KV BUS EXPANSION
Teams # 20273
Need Date 12/01/2026 Start Date 12/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
GTC will expand the Dresden 500kV bus into a 5 - element ring bus configuration. Loop the O'Hara -
Wansley 500kV line into the Dresden 500kV substation and allow for future Dresden - Talbot 500kV 
line termination.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 114 of 304
GTC: GORDON - SANDERSVILLE #1 115KV LINE REBUILD
Teams # 20002
Need Date 12/01/2026 Start Date 02/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the 1.87 miles of Sandersville #1 - Sandersville #6 line section of the Gordon - Sandersville #1 
115kV line from 100C ACSR 336 conductor to 100C ACSR 795 conductor.
REDACTED
Project delayed in 2026
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 115 of 304
CC - CASS PINE 230/25 NEW SUB - QCELLS - CC IMPROVEMENTS
Teams # 20151
Need Date 12/31/2026 Start Date 06/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Build a new 230/25kV 8 element ring bus networked substation named Cass Pine that will 
interconnect between new Great Valley and Hill View 230kV substations.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 116 of 304
GRADY-WEST END 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 19287
Need Date 12/31/2026 Start Date 06/01/2022
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Reconductor the Grady - West End 115kV line (2.6 miles) using 200C 1351 ACSS Martin.
REDACTED
No Change
Project delayed from 2024 to 2026
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 117 of 304
MORROW - MOUNTAIN VIEW 115 KV REBUILD
Teams # 19363
Need Date 12/31/2026 Start Date 01/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the Mountain View - Barnett Road section of the Morrow - Mountain View 115kV line with 
200C 1351 ACSS Martin conductor.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 118 of 304
CC - EMBLEM RIVERSIDE CUSTOMER SUB (FLEXENTIAL)
Teams # 20509
Need Date 03/01/2027 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
A new customer substation, Emblem Riverside, is being built along the Buzzard Roost - Douglasville 
230kV line. Moreover, a Fiber ICON ring is being built in the area to help with communications and 
protection for all customers in the area.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 119 of 304
GTC: HICKORY LEVEL - VILLA RICA 230KV LINE RECONDUCTOR
Teams # 19635
Need Date 05/01/2027 Start Date 05/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
GTC will reconductor from 100C 1351 ACSR to 160C 1351 ACSS on 8.6 miles of 230kV line. A 2000A 
line trap at Villa Rica will also be replaced with a 3000A line trap.
REDACTED
Project advanced from 2029 to 2027
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 120 of 304
MORROW - YATES COMMON 115KV LINE UPGRADE
Teams # 19601
Need Date 05/01/2027 Start Date 05/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
On the Fife - Fairburn SW - Owens Corning Tap sections of the Morrow - Yates Common 115kV line, 
rebuild approximately 5.8 miles of 50C 477 ACSR with 210C 1334 T13 ACCR Martin or 200C 1351.0 
ACSS Martin. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 121 of 304
POSSUM BRANCH - YATES COMMON 115KV REBUILD (YATES TO CLEM)
Teams # 15879
Need Date 05/01/2027 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild 11.2 miles of 100C 477 ACSR with 200C 1334 T13 ACCR Martin or 200C 1351.0 ACSS between 
Yates Common to Oak Mountain. Replace limiting elements along the line.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 122 of 304
CC - GULLATT ROAD TRANSMISSION IMPROVEMENTS
Teams # 20771
Need Date 06/01/2027 Start Date 06/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Upstream Transmission improvements to serve a new customer station being built along the 
Morrow - Yates Common 115kV and Line Creek - Fairburn #2 115kV lines. Rebuild the Morrow - Yates 
Common 115kV line from Line Creek to the new Gullatt Road customer station. Rebuild the Line 
Creek - Fairburn #2 115kV line from Line Creek to the new Gullatt Road customer station. Remove 
the Owens Corning Tap Connection on the Morrow - Yates Common 115kV line and rebuild the line 
from North Coweta to Str 1. Build new line section from Str 1 to the new Gullatt Road customer 
station 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 123 of 304
CC - MICROSOFT - SHUGART (CCO06)
Teams # 18736
Need Date 06/01/2027 Start Date 12/31/2022
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
GPC will rebuild the Line Creek 230kV substation as breaker and a half configuration and connect the 
Morrow - Yates 230kV line and the Union City - Yates 230kV White line into Line Creek. For the 
Union City - Yates 230kV Black line, terminate the line from the Yates side into Shugart Farms, and 
the line from the Union City side into Line Creek. Build two short lines from Line Creek to Shugart 
Farms (0.3 miles each) with 100C 1351 ACSR Martin conductor.
REDACTED
Project delayed from 2024 to 2027
New project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 124 of 304
CC - SUMMER LAKE - VILLA RICA 230KV REBUILD (CC IMPROVEMENT)
Teams # 20781
Need Date 06/01/2027 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the 2.5 mile section from Villa Rica to the new East Villa Rica Switching station on the 
Summer Lake - Villa Rica 230kV line with bundled 200C 1351 ACSS Martin.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 125 of 304
CC - TA REALTY ELLENWOOD NETWORK IMPROVEMENTS
Teams # 20736
Need Date 06/01/2027 Start Date 06/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the ~14.9mi Austin Drive - Morrow 115kV with 200C 1351.5 ACSS Martin. At Austin Drive 
115kV, replace the 115/230kV auto transformer along with upgrades other limiting elements at the 
station.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 126 of 304
DOYLE - LG&E MONROE 230KV - JACKS CREEK LOOP IN
Teams # 20234
Need Date 06/01/2027 Start Date 01/03/2027
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Loop in and out the new Jack's Creek 230kV switching station into the Doyle - LG&E Monroe 230kV 
line. This is coordinated with the East Walton Project (TEAMS #09662).
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 127 of 304
GTC: ADAMSVILLE - BUZZARD ROOST 230KV REBUILD
Teams # 20858
Need Date 06/01/2027 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
GTC plans to rebuild 5 miles of line from Buzzard Roost to Boat Rock Road with 200C 1351 ACSS 
Martin.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 128 of 304
GTC: DOUGLASVILLE - VILLA RICA 230KV REBUILD (CC IMPROVEMENT)
Teams # 20776
Need Date 06/01/2027 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the 2.5 mile section from Villa to the new East Villa Rica Switching station on the Douglasville 
- Villa Rica 230kV line with bundled 200C 1351 ACSS Martin.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 129 of 304
GTC: DOYLE - WINDER PRIMARY 230KV LINE JUMPER REPLACEMENT
Teams # 20778
Need Date 06/01/2027 Start Date 12/31/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Replace the limiting AAC 1033 jumper with AAC 1590 at Doyle on the Doyle - Winder Primary 230kV 
line.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 130 of 304
GTC: EAST MOULTRIE - HIGHWAY 112 230 KV LINE
Teams # 19358
Need Date 06/01/2027 Start Date 06/01/2022
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Build a new 27 miles of 230kV line between HWY 112 and East Moultrie substations with 100C 1351 
ACSR conductor.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 131 of 304
GTC: EAST WALTON 500/230KV PROJECT
Teams # 09662
Need Date 06/01/2027 Start Date 06/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
GTC: 
- Construct the East Walton 500/230kV substation. 
- Construct the Bostwick 230kV switching station. 
- Construct the East Walton - Rockville 500kV line (3 - 100C 1113 ACSR). 
- Construct the Bethabara - East Walton 230kV line (170C 1351.5 ACSS). 
- Construct the Bostwick - East Walton 230kV line (170C 1351.5 ACSS). 
- Construct the East Walton - Jack's Creek 230kV line (170C 1351.5 ACSS). 
- At Bethabara, terminate the East Walton 230kV line. 
- Loop the East Social Circle - East Watkinsville 230kV line into Bostwick. 
- Replace line trap at East Watkinsville on the Bostwick 230kV line. 
GPC: 
- Construct the Rockville 500kV switching station. 
- Loop the Scherer - Warthen 500kV line into Rockville. 
- Loop the Doyle - LG&E Monroe 230kV line into Jack's Creek. 
MEAG: 
- Construct the Jack's Creek 230kV switching station.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 132 of 304
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 133 of 304
GTC: GARRETT RD - V. RICA 230KV LINE RECONDUCTOR (CC NET IM)
Teams # 20505
Need Date 06/01/2027 Start Date 01/01/2027
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
GTC will reconductor the section from East Villa Rica Switching station to Garrett Rd with 160C 1351 
ACSS on 11.5 miles of the Garrett Road - Villa Rica 230kV line. Additionally, the 2.5 miles section from 
East Villa Rica Switching Station to Villa Rica will be rebuilt with bundled 200C 1351 ACSS Martin.
REDACTED
Project advanced from 2029 to 2027
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 134 of 304
GTC: RIDDLEVILLE BUS REPLACEMENT
Teams # 19622
Need Date 06/01/2027 Start Date 01/09/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
GTC will replace the main 115kV bus at Riddleville substation with higher rating.
REDACTED
Project delayed from 2024 to 2027
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 135 of 304
GTC: SKC 115KV BUS AND JUMPER REPLACEMENT
Teams # 19606
Need Date 06/01/2027 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Replace the 115kV bus and jumpers at SKC substation with higher rated bus and jumpers with rating 
higher than 255MVA.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 136 of 304
GTC: SOUTH HAZLEHURST - NEW LACY 230KV LINE
Teams # 20020
Need Date 06/01/2027 Start Date 01/15/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
GTC will build a new 230kV transmission line between South Hazlehurst (bus 2) and New Lacy 
substation (approximately 25 miles) with 100C ACSR 1351 Martin conductor. Do all the necessary 
upgrade work to accommodate the additional line in both facilities.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 137 of 304
GTC: SWITCH WAY - THORNTON ROAD 230KV LINE REBUILD
Teams # 20506
Need Date 06/01/2027 Start Date 01/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
GTC will rebuild the 1.3 mile Switchway - Thornton Rd 230kV line with 200C 1351 ACSS.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 138 of 304
JESUP - OFFERMAN 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 18668
Need Date 06/01/2027 Start Date 04/06/2021
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild 20 miles of 100C 4/0 ACSR Penguin conductor along the Jesup - Offerman 115kV line, with 
100C 795 ACSR Drake conductor.
REDACTED
No Change
Project delayed from 2024 to 2027
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 139 of 304
LAWRENCEVILLE - WINDER 115KV LINE REBUILD
Teams # 10143
Need Date 06/01/2027 Start Date 10/15/2026
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild approximately 1.2 miles of 100C 636 ACSR conductor from Johns Manville to Winder Primary 
with 200C 795 ACSS conductor.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 140 of 304
LAWRENCEVILLE - WINDER PRIMARY 230KV LINE REBUILD
Teams # 10481
Need Date 06/01/2027 Start Date 06/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the entire Lawrenceville - Winder Primary 230kV line, approximately 15.4 miles, using 200C 
1351 ACSS "Martin" conductor.
REDACTED
Project advanced from 2029 to 2027
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 141 of 304
MEAG: RAY PLACE RD - WARRENTON PRIMARY
Teams # 20264
Need Date 06/01/2027 Start Date 01/01/2026
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild 10 miles of Ray Place - Warrenton Primary 115kV line with 100C 2 - 1351 ACSR conductor 
and replace 1590 AAC Coreopsis jumpers at Warrenton.
REDACTED
Project advanced from 2030 to 2027
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 142 of 304
SANDERSVILLE #1 - WADLEY PRI. 115KV REBUILD/RECONDUCTOR
Teams # 19248
Need Date 06/01/2027 Start Date 02/15/2022
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild approximately 24.3 miles of the Sandersville #1 - Wadley Primary 115kV line from 100C 336 
ACSR Linnet conductor to 100C 1351 ACSR Drake conductor. Replace limiting elements in 
substations along the line.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 143 of 304
SAV: GOSHEN (SAV) - KRAFT 115KV LINE REBUILD
Teams # 20785
Need Date 06/01/2027 Start Date 06/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild 9.3 miles of Goshen - Kraft 115kV line from Kraft - Godley J - Rice Hope from 100C 795 ACSR 
Drake to 200C 1351 ACSS Martin.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 144 of 304
SAV: GOSHEN (SAV) - MCINTOSH 115KV LINE REBUILD
Teams # 20065
Need Date 06/01/2027 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the Goshen (Savannah) - Georgia Pacific (Rincon) section, approximately 6.7 miles, of the 
Goshen (Sav) - McIntosh 115kV line using 100C 795 ACSR Drake conductor.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 145 of 304
CC - TOMOCHICHI 500/230KV SOLUTION (CC NETWORK IMPROVEMENTS)
Teams # 20717
Need Date 07/15/2027 Start Date 06/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Build the new Tomochichi 500/230kV switching station (four element ring bus 500kV high side, four 
element breaker and a half 230kV low side) splitting the Ohara - Schere 500kV line. Build two new 
230kV lines from the new Tomochichi substation to the new Towaliga River 230kV substation.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 146 of 304
GRID - ARKWRIGHT - LLOYD SHOALS 115KV
Teams # 18573
Need Date 07/30/2027 Start Date 06/01/2021
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the Arkwright - Lloyd Shoals 115kV line with 100C 795 ACSR Drake.
REDACTED
Project delayed from 2024 to 2027
Project delayed from 2024 to 2027. Previously listed under TEAMS #12016.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 147 of 304
GTC: EATONTON PRIMARY (035591) - LICK CREEK 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 20591
Need Date 12/01/2027 Start Date 10/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild approximately 7.5 miles Eatonton Primary - Lick Creek 115kV line section with 100C 795 
ACSR conductor.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 148 of 304
ATHENA - EAST WATKINSVILLE 115 KV (REBUILD)
Teams # 17977
Need Date 12/31/2027 Start Date 08/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild 8.47 miles of the University of Georgia - East Watkinsville line sections on the Athena - East 
Watkinsville 115kV line with 100C ACSR 1033 conductor.
REDACTED
Delayed from 2026 to 2027
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 149 of 304
CC - HILL VIEW & GRASSY HOLLOW SUB - CC IMPROVEMENTS
Teams # 20150
Need Date 12/31/2027 Start Date 06/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Build two 230kV switching stations (Hill View and Grassy Hollow) looping into the Cartersville -
McGrau Ford 230kV line (8.5 miles apart). Build two new 230kV lines: Cass Pine - Great Valley and 
Great Valley - Grassy Hollow (total 10.1 miles) with 200C 1351 ACSS Martin.
REDACTED
Project delayed from 2024 to 2027
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 150 of 304
DYER ROAD - EAST ROANOKE 115KV (REBUILD)
Teams # 20024
Need Date 12/31/2027 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild 20.7 miles of 75C 397.5 ACSR conductor with advanced conductor from Dyer Road to 
Wansley tap on the Dyer Road - East Roanoke (APC) 115kV line. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 151 of 304
AULTMAN ROAD-PERRY 115KV LINE REBUILD
Teams # 19997
Need Date 06/01/2028 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the PPG J2 - Langston Road line section of the Aultman Road - Perry 115kV line from 100C 
336 ACSR Linnet conductor to 200C 1351 ACSS conductor.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 152 of 304
CC - EAST VILLA RICA AREA SWITCHING STATION (CC IMPROVEMENT)
Teams # 20797
Need Date 06/01/2028 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Build a 7 rung breaker and a half switching station along the right of way of the (3) 230kV lines about 
2.5 miles East of Villa Rica to service recently signed customers in the area. All three lines will 
terminate into this station.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 153 of 304
CC - VILLA RICA UPGRADES (CC NETWORK IMPROVEMENTS)
Teams # 20774
Need Date 06/01/2028 Start Date 06/01/2026
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Loop in the Bowen - Union City line into Villa Rica 500kV bus and add a second 2016 MVA 500/230kV 
auto transformer. Convert the 230kV side to a 10 element breaker and a half scheme.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 154 of 304
FITZGERALD - PITTS 115 KV LINE REBUILD
Teams # 21048
Need Date 06/01/2028 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild approximately 26.14 miles of the Fitzgerald - Pitts 115kV line with 200C 1351 ACSS.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 155 of 304
GTC: BARNESVILLE - SOUTH GRIFFIN 230KV PROJECT
Teams # 08458
Need Date 06/01/2028 Start Date 01/01/2026
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Construct 19 miles of 230kV circuit, on existing ROW, using200C 1351 ACSS conductor from South 
Griffin 230/115kV substation to the Barnesville 230/69kV substation. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 156 of 304
GTC: BARNEYVILLE - EAST MOULTRIE 115KV NEW LINE
Teams # 20503
Need Date 06/01/2028 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Build a new 20 miles of 115kV line with 200C 1351 ACSS from Barneyville to East Moultrie. Add 
115kV breakers to Barneyville and East Moultrie substations.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 157 of 304
GTC: BONAIRE PRIMARY 500/230KV XFMR REPLCMNT & RELAY MOD
Teams # 20873
Need Date 06/01/2028 Start Date 03/14/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Replace 500/230kV, auto transformer C with a new 448 MVA transformer. Replace obsolete relay 
panels. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 158 of 304
GTC: BOSTWICK - EAST SOCIAL CIRCLE 230KV RECONDUCTOR
Teams # 19992
Need Date 06/01/2028 Start Date 12/31/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Reconductor 10.8 miles of the East Social Circle - East Watkinsville 230kV line (up to future Bostwick 
location) from 1033 ACSR Curlew conductor to 1033 ACCR 200C conductor.
REDACTED
Project advanced from 2030 to 2028
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 159 of 304
JACK MCDONOUGH - NORTHWEST (BLACK) 230KV RECONDUCTOR
Teams # 20777
Need Date 06/01/2028 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the Jack McDonough - Northwest (Black) 230kV line (4.59 miles) using 200C 1351 Elbrus/TW.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 160 of 304
MEAG: BRUMBLEY CREEK - SOUTH BAINBRIDGE 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 19629
Need Date 06/01/2028 Start Date 01/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild 2.1 miles segment from line tap into Roddenbery Station on the South Bainbridge -
Thomasville 115kV line from 50C ACSR TW 762.8 to 200C 1351 ACSS conductor.
REDACTED
Project delayed from 2025 to 2028
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 161 of 304
MEAG: THOMASVILLE 230/115KV AUTOBANK REPLACEMENT
Teams # 19630
Need Date 06/01/2028 Start Date 06/01/2027
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Replace the 140MVA 230/115kV auto transformer #4 at Thomasville substation.
REDACTED
Project advanced from 2029 to 2028
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 162 of 304
PITTMAN ROAD - WEST POINT DAM (USA) 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 20482
Need Date 06/01/2028 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild 3 miles from the Pittman Road 115kV station to the West Point Dam (USA) 115kV station 
with 100C 1351 ACSS Martin conductor. Replace AAC 750 jumper at Pittman Road 115kV with (2) 
1590 AAC.
REDACTED
Project advanced from 2031 to 2028
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 163 of 304
PLANT YATES BREAKER AND HALF STATION
Teams # 20656
Need Date 06/01/2028 Start Date 05/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the Yates 6 & 7 substation to a Breaker and a Half configuration.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 164 of 304
SAV: COLEMAN - DEAN FOREST 115KV LINE REBUILD
Teams # 20783
Need Date 06/01/2028 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild entire line from Coleman to Dean Forest. 6.67 miles of 100C 477 Hawk Conductor with 200C 
1351 ACSS Martin conductor. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 165 of 304
SAV: MAGNOLIA - TRUMAN PARKWAY 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 20407
Need Date 06/01/2028 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild 3 miles of the Magnolia - Truman Parkway 115kV from 75C 927 ACAR to 200C 1351 ACSS 
Martin conductor or higher rated conductor. Upgrade 1200A switches at Magnolia substation to 
2000A switches and jumpers at Truman Parkway.
REDACTED
No Changes
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 166 of 304
SMART VALVES AT EAST VILLA RICA SWITCHING STATION
Teams # 21069
Need Date 06/01/2028 Start Date 06/01/2028
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Installation of Power Flow Controllers at the new East Villa Rica Switching Station on the Douglasville 
- Villa Rica 230kV and Summer Lake - Villa Rica 230kV lines. The Power Flow Controllers will be 
removed when GTCs strategic project at Cavender Drive goes in service. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 167 of 304
SOUTH MACON 115KV BUSES 1 & 2 REPLACEMENT
Teams # 20768
Need Date 06/01/2028 Start Date 01/15/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Replace the 115kV buses 1 and 2 at South Macon with (2) 1590 AAC.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 168 of 304
UNION CITY - YATES 230KV (BLACK) LINE REBUILD
Teams # 20274
Need Date 06/01/2028 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the Union City - Yates 230kV Black line with bundled 200C 1351 ACSS Martin conductor. 
Replace limiting elements at Union City, Fairburn #1 and Line Creek substations.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 169 of 304
FIRST AVENUE - NORTH COLUMBUS 115KV LINE REBUILD
Teams # 13166
Need Date 12/01/2028 Start Date 01/01/2028
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the 0.9 miles North Columbus - First Avenue 115kV line (currently 75C 657 ACAR) with 200C 
1351 ACSS conductor.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 170 of 304
GTC: NORTH DUBLIN 230/115KV TRANSFORMERS AND BUS-TIE BREAKER
Teams # 20586
Need Date 12/01/2028 Start Date 11/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Replace 230/115kV auto transformers A & B with (2) new 230/115kV, 400 MVA auto transformers. 
Replace 230kV bus tie breaker with a new 2000A breaker. Replace 115kV bus tie breaker with a new 
2000A breaker.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 171 of 304
ASHLEY PARK-WANSLEY 500KV
Teams # 21062
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 12/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Construct a 500kV line from Ashley Park to Wansley, approximately 35 miles long.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 172 of 304
BLAKELY PRIMARY - HUCKLEBERRY 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 10222
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the Blakley Primary - Huckleberry 115kV line from 75C 477 ACSR to 200C 1351 ACSS. (13.5 
miles) 
GPC: Replace jumpers at Blakely Primary 
GTC: Replace jumpers at Blakely and Huckleberry 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 173 of 304
BROADWAY - ECHECONNEE 115 KV LINE REBUILD
Teams # 21047
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 01/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the Griffin Rd – Echeconnee line section of Broadway - Echeconnee line with 200C 1351 ACSS 
conductor. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 174 of 304
BUTLER - THOMASTON 230KV LINE CONVERSION
Teams # 16887
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 01/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the radial Thomaston - Butler 115kV line to 230kV network operation. 
Make all necessary upgrades and accommodations at Butler and Thomaston. Convert the Wesley 
substation from 115kV to 230kV.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 175 of 304
BUZZARD ROOST - FACTORY SHOALS 230KV NEW LINE
Teams # 21036
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 06/01/2026
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
A new 2 mile 230kV line is being built from Buzzard Roost to Factory Shoals with 200C 1351 ACSS 
Martin conductor.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 176 of 304
CONYERS - KLONDIKE 230 KV SECOND LINE
Teams # 21142
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 06/01/2026
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Build a new 6.56 mile line from Conyers to Klondike with 200C (2) 1351 ACSS Martin conductor. Build 
one new 230kV breaker terminal at Conyers and one new 230kV terminal at Klondike. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 177 of 304
GLENWOOD SPRINGS - PORTERDALE PRIMARY 230KV LINE SWITCH REPL
Teams # 21138
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 06/01/2029
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Replace the 600A line switch at Porterdale Primary on the Glenwood Springs - Porterdale Primary 
230kV Line with 1200A switch. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 178 of 304
GTC: BARNESVILLE PRIMARY - THOMASTON 230KV
Teams # 21112
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 06/01/2027
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild Barnesville Primary - Thomaston 230kV line (13.24 miles) with 100C 1351 ACSS; Replace 
1200A switches at Barnesville Primary & Thomaston with 3000A switch; replace associated jumper at 
both stations.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 179 of 304
GTC: BAY CREEK 230/115KV SECOND AUTO TRANSFORMER
Teams # 10814
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 06/01/2028
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Install a second 230/115kV, 400 MVA auto transformer at the Bay Creek substation.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 180 of 304
GTC: BONAIRE PRIMARY - EASTMAN PRIMARY 115 KV LINE REBUILD
Teams # 21140
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 01/01/2026
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild 41.08 miles of the Bonaire Primary - Eastman Primary 115kV Line using 200C 1351ACSS 
Martin and upgrade the bus at Roddy substation.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 181 of 304
GTC: CLIFTONDALE - LINE CREEK 230KV LINE
Teams # 20849
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 06/01/2026
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
An 11.6 mile 230kV line is being built form Cliftondale to Line Creek with 200C 1351 ACSS Martin.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 182 of 304
GTC: DRESDEN - TALBOT 500KV LINE 
Teams # 19950
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
GTC will build a new 500kV line from Talbot to Dresden (75 miles). This project will create a new 
Talbot 500/230kV substation with a 500/230kV auto transformers. The low side of the auto 
transformers will connect to the Talbot County #1 and #2 230kV buses.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 183 of 304
GTC: HOPEWELL 230/115 KV BANK A
Teams # 20760
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 06/01/2028
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Replace the Hopewell 230/115kV auto transformer with a 400 MVA auto transformer.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 184 of 304
GTC: TENASKA - WANSLEY 500KV NEW LINE
Teams # 21123
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 12/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Construct a 5 mile long 500kV line between Tenaska and Wansley. Make all necessary
accommodations at the substations for the line termination.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 185 of 304
LLOYD SHOALS - PORTERDALE PRIMARY 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 21141
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 03/01/2026
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild 15.8 miles of 50C 397.5 ACSR Ibis with 200C 1351 ACSS Martin from Jackson Lake to Lloyd 
Shoals and Jackson Lake to South. Covington Junction. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 186 of 304
LOWER RIVER - WEBB (APC) 115KV RECONDUCTOR
Teams # 20285
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Reconductor 0.97 miles of 100C 636 Grosbeak Lower River - Webb 115kV line with 200C 795 ACSS 
Drake conductor.
REDACTED
Project advanced from 2030 to 2029
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 187 of 304
MCEVER ROAD - SHOAL CREEK 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 19621
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 12/31/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the 636 ACSR (1 mile) of the McEver Road - College Square section, and 2 - 4/0 copper part 
(2.05 miles) of the College Square to Lakeside WTP B line section, part of the McEver Road - Shoal 
Creek 115kV line, using 200C 1351 ACSS conductor.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 188 of 304
MCMANUS - WEST BRUNSWICK 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 20346
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 01/01/2026
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the McManus - West Brunswick 115kV line, approximately 5.7 miles, with 200C 1351 ACSS 
Martin conductor.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 189 of 304
MEAG: AULTMAN ROAD - FORT VALLEY #1 115 KV REBUILD
Teams # 17706
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 06/01/2026
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild approximately 8 miles of the Aultman Road - Fort Valley #1 115kV line with 200C 1351 ACSS 
conductor. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 190 of 304
MEAG: SLAPPEY DRIVE - WESTOVER 115KV LINE REBUILD
Teams # 11051
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 06/01/2026
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild 2.92 miles of 100C sagged 477 ACSR Hawk conductor from Slappey Drive to Albany #9 with 
1351 ACSR.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 191 of 304
NORCROSS - NORTH DRUID HILLS 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 20757
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 01/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the Norcross - Norcross Junction (674) segment, approximately 3.9 miles, from 100C 477 
ACSR Hawk conductor to 200C 1351 ACSS "Martin" conductor. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 192 of 304
SAV: BOULEVARD - MAGNOLIA 115 KV LINE REBUILD
Teams # 21006
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 01/01/2027
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the entire line from Boulevard to Magnolia (4.56 miles) from 100C 795 ACSR Drake to 200C 
1351 ACSS Martin
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 193 of 304
SAV: DEAN FOREST - LITTLE OGEECHEE 230 KV REBUILD
Teams # 21023
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 01/01/2026
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the entire line from Little Ogeechee - Salt Creek and Salt Creek - Dean Forest, approximately 
8 miles, using 200C 1351 ACSS/Martin. Upgrade jumpers at the Little Ogeechee terminal.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 194 of 304
SAV: RICE HOPE NEW AUTO TRANSFORMER
Teams # 20989
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Install a new 230/115kV 400MVA auto transformer at Rice Hope and loop in the Crossgate -
McIntosh 230kV line.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 195 of 304
SOUTH BAINBRIDGE - SINAI (FPL) 115KV LINE RECONDUCTOR
Teams # 13628
Need Date 06/01/2029 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the Four Mile tap - Recovery - Sinai (FPL) segment of the Sinai (FPL) - South Bainbridge 115kV 
line from 100C 336.4 ACSR to 200C 1351 ACSS. 9.8 miles in FPL and 13.75 miles in GPC 
At Recovery (GTC): Replace 100C 336.4 ACSR string bus with higher rating and jumpers with (1) 1590 
AAC 
At Sinai (FPL): Replace 100C 336.4 ACSR string bus with higher rating 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 196 of 304
BAY CREEK - CONYERS 230KV REBUILD
Teams # 20248
Need Date 12/31/2029 Start Date 06/01/2031
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
GPC will rebuild the Bay Creek - Conyers 230kV line, approximately 15.29 miles, using 200C 1351 
ACSS "Martin" conductor. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 197 of 304
ANNISTON - HAMMOND 230KV LINE
Teams # 21129
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the 28.12 miles section between Hammond and the Goshen tap with 200C 1351 ACSS Martin 
conductor.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 198 of 304
ATKINSON - NORTHSIDE DRIVE 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 20764
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 06/01/2027
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild a portion of the Atkinson - Northside 115kV line, approximately 3.2 miles from Atkinson to 
Chattahoochee with 200C 1351 ACSS Martin.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 199 of 304
ATKINSON - NORTHWEST 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 20761
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 06/01/2027
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the 1.2 mile Atkinson - Tilford Yards section of the Atkinson - Northwest 115kV with 200C 
1351 ACSS Martin.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 200 of 304
CC - NORTH GEORGIA DATA NETWORK UPGRADES
Teams # 21130
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 06/01/2026
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Construct approximately 7 miles of 115kV line with minimum 170C 1351 ACSS conductor from 
Gillsville Tap Junction to Midway. Utilize the existing GPC owned North Jackson - Lawrence Smith 
46kV ROW that is to be retired. Disconnect the East Maysville 115kV tap at Midway 115kV and 
terminate the new Pond Fork - Midway 115kV line.
REDACTED
New project
New project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 201 of 304
CORNELIA - TALLULAH LODGE 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 10478
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 06/01/2027
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild approximately 9.7 miles of the Cornelia - Chase Road - Clarksville - Hollywood segments of 
the Cornelia - Tallulah Lodge 115kV line with 200C 795 ACSS conductor. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 202 of 304
DU: DAWSON CROSSING - NELSON (WHITE) 115 KV REBUILD
Teams # 18669
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 12/31/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild approximately 15.7 miles of the Dawson Crossing - Etowah - Reavis Mountain - Nelson 
sections of the Dawson Crossing - Nelson (White) 115kV line with 1351 ACSS conductor. GPC will 
make any necessary relaying changes at Dawson Crossing.
REDACTED
New Project
Project delayed from 2028 to 2030
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 203 of 304
EAST POINT - TRIBUTARY 230KV REBUILD
Teams # 21097
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 06/01/2027
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the 2.9 mile section from Cavender Drive to Marietta 25 with 200C 1351 ACSS conductor on 
the East Point - Tributary 230kV line.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 204 of 304
EAST POINT - UNION CITY 230KV BLACK LINE RECONDUCTOR
Teams # 20480
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 06/01/2028
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Reconductor the 1.5 mile section from Flat Shoals Road station to the Stonewall Tell loop - in point 
on the East Point - Union City 230kV Black line with 200C 1351 ACSS Martin conductor.
Replace limiting elements at Union City
REDACTED
Project advanced from 2031 to 2030
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 205 of 304
ECHECONNEE-WELLSTON 115KV LINE REBUILD
Teams # 19627
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 06/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild approximately 11.8 miles of the Echeconnee - Wellston 115kV line with 200C 1351 ACSS 
conductor and the limiting elements along the line with higher ratings. Replace the Bus at North 
Warner Robins with 1590 AAC.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 206 of 304
FARLEY (APC)-TAZEWELL 500KV
Teams # 21063
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 12/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Construct a new 500kV line from Farley (APC) to Tazewell substation, approximately 120 miles long. 
Construct a 5 breaker 500kV ring bus to loop in the Blacksmith - Talbot 500kV line, terminate the 
new Farley - Tazewell 500kV and Talbot #2 - Tazewell 500kV lines. Install a 500/230kV auto 
transformer to connect to the existing 230kV switchyard.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 207 of 304
GAINESVILLE #2 - MCEVER ROAD 115 KV REBUILD
Teams # 12120
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 12/31/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild approximately 5.3 miles of the Gainesville #2 - McEver Rd 115kV line with 200C 1351 ACSS 
conductor.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 208 of 304
GLENWOOD SPRINGS - LAKE OCONEE 115KV LINE REBUILD
Teams # 20298
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 06/01/2027
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the North Eatonton Junction - Putnam Sawmill Junction line with 200C 1351 ACSS conductor.
REDACTED
Advance to 2030 from 2033.
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 209 of 304
GOAT ROCK REACTORS INSTALLATION
Teams # 21128
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 06/01/2028
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Install 1% series reactors on the Fortson - Goat Rock (Black) 230kV and Fortson - Goat Rock (White) 
230kV.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 210 of 304
GOLDENS CREEK - WARRENTON PRIMARY 230KV REBUILD
Teams # 19996
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 06/01/2028
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild approximately 0.34 miles of the Goldens Creek - Warrenton Primary 230kV line from 100C 1 
- 1351.5 ACSR Martin conductor to 200C 1351 ACCR Martin conductor or equivalent.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 211 of 304
GORDON-SANDERSVILLE #1 115KV LINE REBUILD (DEEPSTEP-SAND #6)
Teams # 20428
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 12/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the Deepstep - Robins Spring (7.6 miles) Robins Spring - Kaolin J (2.23mi), and Kaolin J -
Sandersville #6 (0.66 miles) line sections of the Gordon - Sandersville #1 115kV line. Rebuild a total of 
10.49 miles from 100C 336 ACSR to 100C ACSR 795 conductor.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 212 of 304
GOSHEN AREA STRATEGIC SOLUTION
Teams # 21116
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Construct a 230kV switching station on the Waynesboro - Wilson 230kV line and a new 230kV line 
between the switching station and Goshen, approximately 12.3 miles. Provides an alternate power 
flow path into Goshen outside of the existing constrained Goshen - Vogtle corridor.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 213 of 304
GTC: BIG SMARR - TOMOCHICHI 500KV
Teams # 21073
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 12/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Construct a 500kV line from Big Smarr to Tomochichi, approximately 36 miles long. Make the 
necessary modifications at Big Smarr and Tomochichi to add breakers and terminate the line.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 214 of 304
GTC: BUZZARD ROOST - CAVENDER DRIVE 230KV NEW LINE
Teams # 21014
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 06/01/2026
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
GTC is building a new 7 mile 230kV line from Cavender Drive to Buzzard Roost with 200C 1351 ACSS 
Martin.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 215 of 304
GTC: CAVENDER DRIVE 500/230KV AUTOBANK
Teams # 21013
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 06/01/2026
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
GTC will turn Cavender Drive into a 500/230kV station looping in the Villa Rica - Union City 500kV 
line, installing a 2016 MVA auto transformer.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 216 of 304
GTC: EAST WATKINSVILLE 230 KV STATION MODIFICATION
Teams # 20375
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 06/01/2028
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Replace the 1600A reactors at East Watkinsville on the Russell Dam 230kV line with larger size.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 217 of 304
GTC: POND FORK - MIDWAY 115KV LINE
Teams # 21131
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 06/01/2026
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
GTC: Construct approximately 6 miles of 115kV line with minimum 170C 1351 ACSS conductor from 
Gillsville Tap Junction to Pond Fork, utilizing the existing GTC owned portion of the North Jackson -
Lawrence Smith 46kV ROW. 
At Pond Fork, install a second 230/115kV 400MVA auto transformer and terminate the Pond Fork -
Midway 115kV line.
REDACTED
New project
New project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 218 of 304
GTC: ROCKVILLE - TIGER CREEK -WARTHEN 500KV LINES
Teams # 21077
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 12/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Build the new 500kV line from Rockville to Tiger Creek and Tiger Creek to Warthen, approximately 20 
miles and 9 miles long respectively. Build a 500kV yard at Tiger Creek and install a 500/230kV auto 
transformer. Make all necessary accommodations at Warthen and Rockville for the new 500kV 
breakers.
REDACTED
New project
New project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 219 of 304
GTC: TALBOT #2 - TAZEWELL 500KV LINE
Teams # 21076
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 12/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Build a new 500kV line from Tazewell to Talbot #2, approximately 20 miles. Make all necessary 
accommodations at Tazewell and Talbot #2 for the new 500kV breakers and line termination.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 220 of 304
GTC: TIGER CREEK-ROCKVILLE-NORTH SPA 230KV PROJECT
Teams # 21094
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 01/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Build a new 4 - breaker 230kV ring bus at Rockville substation (no auto transformer to be added at 
this time). 
Loop in the Eatonton Primary #2 - Wallace Dam 230kV line. Build a new line 230kV line to Tiger 
Creek. 
Build a new 230kV line to North Spa. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 221 of 304
JEFFERSON ROAD - WINDER PRIMARY 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 20789
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild approximately 11 miles of the Jefferson Road - Russell - Richardson Street Junction segments 
of the Jefferson Road - Winder Primary 115kV line with 200C 1351 ACSS Martin conductor.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 222 of 304
KETTLE CREEK PRIMARY - PINE GROVE PRIMARY 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 20284
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 06/02/2026
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild approximately 38.04 miles of 50C 4/0 ACSR conductor from the Pine Grove to the Pearson 
tap using 200C 1351 ACSS conductor.
REDACTED
Project delayed from 2029 to 2030
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 223 of 304
MEAG: ATHENA - WARRENTON 230KV CONVERSION
Teams # 21118
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Reconductor/rebuild and convert the 115kV lines from Athena - Union Point - Ray Place Road -
Warrenton Primary to 230kV operation. Expand Athena 230kV bus for new line termination, 
construct 230kV bus at Union Point, and expand 230kV bus at Warrenton Primary for new line 
termination. Install 230/115kV auto transformers at Union Point Primary and Ray Place Road. 
Replace limiting network equipment at substations along the line. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 224 of 304
NEW CAVENDER DRIVE - TRIBUTARY 230KV LINE
Teams # 20857
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 06/01/2026
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Build a new 4 mile 230kV line from Cavender Drive to Tributary with 200C 1351 ACSS Martin.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 225 of 304
NORTH SPA 230KV STRATEGIC PROJECT
Teams # 21093
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 01/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
This project includes the following scope of work: 
Build a new 230kV switching station north of Oasis in a ring bus configuration with 4 - breakers. 
Loop in the East Social Circle - Oasis (White) 230kV line. 
Build a new 230kV line to Cornish Mountain from North Spa. New 230kV line from Rockville 230kV 
will terminate in this station. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 226 of 304
TALLULAH LODGE - TOCCOA 115 KV REBUILD
Teams # 19995
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 12/31/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the Tallulah Lodge - Toccoa 115kV Line with 100C 795 ACSR conductor (total of 10.3 miles). 
Replace limiting elements at Tallulah Lodge and Toccoa.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 227 of 304
TRIBUTARY - THORNTON RD 230KV REBUILD
Teams # 21098
Need Date 06/01/2030 Start Date 06/01/2027
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the 2.8 mile Tributary - Thornton Road 230kV line with 200C 1351 ACSS Martin.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 228 of 304
THOMASTON 230 NEW BUILD SUB
Teams # 20160
Need Date 11/01/2030 Start Date 01/01/2026
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Replace Thomaston 230/115kV 285MVA auto transformers C and D with 400MVA auto transformers. 
Install high side breakers to meet the 230kV bus differential standards and redesign 230kV bus to a 
breaker and a half configuration.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 229 of 304
BAINBRIDGE TRANSMISSION: EAST RIVER ROAD, EAST BAINBRIDGE
Teams # 18848
Need Date 12/31/2030 Start Date 06/01/2023
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
This project will construct a new 115kV breaker and a half substation a mile north of the East 
Bainbridge substation. East Bainbridge will be simplified to a 115kV straight bus with two 
transmission lines for service to load, a generation interconnection point and a capacitor bank.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 230 of 304
GLENWOOD SPRINGS 115KV CAP BANK 
Teams # 19626
Need Date 12/31/2030 Start Date 01/01/2028
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Install a 115kV two stage 30MVAR capacitor bank at Glenwood Springs substation.
REDACTED
Project advanced from 2031 to 2030.
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 231 of 304
EAST POINT - UNION CITY (WHITE) 230KV REBUILD
Teams # 20690
Need Date 05/01/2031 Start Date 06/01/2028
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild 5.49 miles of 100C 1590.0 ACSR Lapwing with 200C 1351.5 ACSS Martin 230kV line from 
Welcome All to Union City on the East Point - Union City 230kV line.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 232 of 304
AVERY - HOPEWELL 115KV RECONDUCTOR
Teams # 19632
Need Date 06/01/2031 Start Date 01/01/2028
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Reconductor the Hopewell to Birmingham line section (approximately 3.3 miles) on the Avery -
Hopewell 115kV line with 100C 1033 ACSR conductor. Replace jumper at Birmingham with 1590 AAC 
jumper.
REDACTED
No Change
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 233 of 304
BOWEN #10 500/230KV AUTOBANK REPLACEMENT
Teams # 10811
Need Date 06/01/2031 Start Date 06/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Replace the existing Bowen #10 1350 MVA 500/230kV auto transformer with a 2016 MVA 
500/230kV auto transformer.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 234 of 304
HATCH - WADLEY 500 KV LINE STRATEGIC PROJECT
Teams # 20756
Need Date 06/01/2031 Start Date 07/03/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Construct a new 500kV line from Hatch - Wadley Primary.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 235 of 304
MEAG: PIO NONO 230/115KV AREA SOLUTION
Teams # 21099
Need Date 06/01/2031 Start Date 01/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Build a 4 - breaker 230kV ring bus to terminate lines from Dorsett, South Griffin, and Big Grocery. 
Install a 400MVA auto transformer and build a 115kV yard to terminate a line from Broadway. Make 
all necessary modifications to accommodate all the 230kV and 115kV lines terminations.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 236 of 304
MEAG: SOUTH GRIFFIN 230/115KV BANK #5
Teams # 21114
Need Date 06/01/2032 Start Date 06/01/2030
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Replace 230/115kV 285MVA auto transformer #5 with 230/115kV 400MVA auto transformer at 
South Griffin.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 237 of 304
SAV: COLEMAN - MELDRIM 115KV LINE REBUILD
Teams # 20784
Need Date 06/01/2032 Start Date 06/01/2029
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild 3 miles of the Coleman - Meldrim 115kV line from Four Lakes to Meldrim with 200C 1351 
ACSS.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 238 of 304
ARKWRIGHT BUS AND JUMPER REPLACEMENT
Teams # 20767
Need Date 06/01/2033 Start Date 06/01/2029
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Replace the 115kV bus at Arkwright with higher rating and replace the jumper on the Arkwright -
Forrest Rd (Macon) 115kV line with at least 1590AAC.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 239 of 304
BAY CREEK - CONYERS 230KV LIMITING ELEMENT REPLACEMENT
Teams # 20758
Need Date 06/01/2033 Start Date 06/01/2031
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Replace equipment such as jumpers, switches, and traps at the Bay Creek, Rockdale, and Conyers 
substations with equipment capable of carrying 3000A. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 240 of 304
EVANS PRIMARY - THURMOND DAM (USA) #5 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 20793
Need Date 06/01/2033 Start Date 06/01/2029
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild approximately 5.45 miles of Euchee Creek - Thurmond Dam segment of the Evans Primary -
Thurmond Dam (USA) #5 115kV line with 200C 1351 ACSS Martin conductor. Replace the main bus 
with a larger element at Thurmond Dam (USA).
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 241 of 304
EVANS PRIMARY - THURMOND DAM (USA) #6 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 20794
Need Date 06/01/2033 Start Date 06/01/2030
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild approximately 8.9 miles of the Evans Primary - Thurmond Dam (USA) #6 115kV line with 
200C 1351 ACSS Martin conductor. Replace the main bus with a larger element at Thurmond Dam 
(USA).
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 242 of 304
GTC: CENTER PRIMARY - CLARKSBORO 230 KV REBUILD
Teams # 12217
Need Date 06/01/2033 Start Date 06/01/2028
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
GTC to rebuild the Center Primary – Clarksboro Primary 230kV line (approx. 8.3 miles) with 200C 
1351 ACSS conductor.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 243 of 304
GTC: CLARKSBORO - WINDER PRIMARY 230KV REBUILD
Teams # 20773
Need Date 06/01/2033 Start Date 06/01/2029
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild approximately 14 miles of the Clarksboro - Winder 230kV line with 200C 1351 ACSS 
conductor.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 244 of 304
GTC: EAST SOCIAL CIRCLE - SNELLVILLE 230KV EQUIPMENT UPGRADE
Teams # 12147
Need Date 06/01/2033 Start Date 06/01/2030
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Replace the 1200A switches at Snellville Primary with 3000A. Also, replace the 1200A line trap and 
switches at East Social Circle with 3000A on the East Social Circle - Snellville 230kV line.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 245 of 304
GTC: EAST WALTON - MIDDLE FORK 500KV
Teams # 21075
Need Date 06/01/2033 Start Date 12/01/2024
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Construct a new 500kV line from East Walton to Middle Fork, approximately 45 miles long. Make all 
necessary accommodations for new 500kV breakers at East Walton and Middle Fork substations.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 246 of 304
GTC: SHOAL CREEK - SOUTH HALL 230KV REBUILD
Teams # 20791
Need Date 06/01/2033 Start Date 06/01/2029
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild approximately 7.9 miles of South Hall - Chestnut Mountain - Spout Springs Road segments of 
the Shoal Creek - South Hall 230kV line with 200C 1351 ACSS conductor. Also, replace 1 - AAC 1590 
jumpers at South Hall with 2 - AAC 1590.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 247 of 304
MCEVER ROAD - SHOAL CREEK 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 21053
Need Date 06/01/2033 Start Date 06/01/2030
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the 2 - 4/0 copper part (approximately 2.9 miles) of the Gainesville Ferry - Lakeside WTP A 
line section, part of the McEver Road - Shoal Creek 115kV line, using 200C 1351 ACSS conductor.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 248 of 304
MCGRAU FORD - MIDDLE FORK 500KV LINE PROJECT
Teams # 09661
Need Date 06/01/2033 Start Date 06/01/2026
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Construct a new approximately 64 mile 500kV line from McGrau Ford to Middle Fork.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 249 of 304
SAV: MELDRIM BANK D REPLACEMENT
Teams # 20796
Need Date 06/01/2033 Start Date 06/01/2030
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Replace 300 MVA 230/115kV Bank D with 400 MVA Bank.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 250 of 304
THOMSON PRIMARY 230/115KV SECOND TRANSFORMER
Teams # 14222
Need Date 06/01/2033 Start Date 08/01/2025
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Install a second 400 MVA, 230/115kV auto transformer at Thomson Primary substation.
REDACTED
Project delayed from 2031 to 2033
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 251 of 304
WINDER PRIMARY 230KV BUS 1-2 PARALLEL BUS-TIE INSTALLATION
Teams # 20759
Need Date 06/01/2033 Start Date 06/01/2031
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Install a 2nd 230kV bus - tie breaker at the Winder Primary Station.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 252 of 304
PINE GROVE PRIMARY - WEST VALDOSTA 115 KV RECONDUCTOR
Teams # 10487
Need Date 12/31/2033 Start Date 12/31/2029
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild 3.7 miles of 100C 4/0 ACSR conductor with 200C 795 ACSS Drake on the Bemis - Pine Grove 
Primary section of the Pine Grove Primary - West Valdosta 115kV line.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 253 of 304
DAWSON CROSSING - GAINESVILLE #1 115 KV
Teams # 18700
Need Date 06/01/2034 Start Date 06/01/2032
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Replace the 500CU main bus at Gainesville #1 115kV with 3" Sch 40 AL Tube. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 254 of 304
SAV: LITTLE OGEECHEE 230/115KV BANK REPLACEMENT 
Teams # 20787
Need Date 06/01/2034 Start Date 06/01/2030
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Replace SATX 280MVA auto transformer with 400MVA auto transformer. 
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 255 of 304
EVANS PRIMARY - THOMSON PRIMARY 115KV REBUILD
Teams # 17993
Need Date 12/31/2034 Start Date 01/01/2031
Description
Supporting Statement
Change From Previous Ten Year Plan
Change From Previous IRP
Estimated Cost – GPC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – GTC REDACTED
Estimated Cost – MEAG REDACTED
Estimated Cost – DU REDACTED
Estimated Cost – ITS 
Assigned* 
REDACTED
* The ITS Assigned designation is for parity forecast purposes only
Rebuild the existing 100C 336 ACSR conductor for the Thomson Primary to Pumpkin Center 115kV 
line section (approximately 5.28 miles), part of the Evans Primary - Thomson Primary 115kV line with 
200C 1351 ACSS Martin conductor.
REDACTED
New Project
New Project
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 256 of 304
F. Expansion Generation Units Details 
The following projects are the result of the addition of Proxy Generation onto the ITS system. 
The following information is included for each project: 
1) project justification, 
2) schedule for implementation (start date), and 
3) expected required in-service date. 
For transmission improvements, the start date is to provide necessary lead time to ensure the expected 
required in-service date can be met.
It is not yet known where any new generation resources will be located after 2029. To balance load and 
generation in the base cases as load grows and existing fossil units are retired, it is necessary to make 
assumptions for the locations of generation to be added. When the cases are created, the “expansion 
units” listed in Table 9 are included as needed. The sites chosen for these units are locations where fossil 
units have been or are expected to be retired, since existing transmission connections are (or previously 
have been) adequate, and therefore are expected to cause minimal new constraints.
No projects were attributed to the expansion units included in the base cases as shown below.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 257 of 304
Table 9 Expansion Unit Locations
Case Type APC (MW) MPC (MW) GPC (MW) Total (MW) Version Cases
Winter 2031 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED V1
Winter 2032 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED V1
Winter 2033 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED V1
Winter 2034 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED V1
Hot Weather 2030 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED V1
Hot Weather 2031 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED V1
Hot Weather 2032 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED V1
Hot Weather 2033 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED V1
Hot Weather 2034 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED V1
Dusk Shoulder 2030 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED V1
Dusk Shoulder 2031 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED V1
Dusk Shoulder 2032 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED V1
Dusk Shoulder 2033 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED V1
Dusk Shoulder 2034 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED V1
Winter 2032 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED V2
Winter 2033 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED V2
Winter 2034 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED V2
Dusk Shoulder 2031 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED V2
Dusk Shoulder 2032 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED V2
Dusk Shoulder 2033 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED V2
Dusk Shoulder 2034 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED V2
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 258 of 304
V. ADDITIONAL SYSTEM ANALYSIS NOTES 
There are several other studies done throughout the year that involve the Southern Company System as a 
whole. These studies are performed by the Transmission Planning – Bulk Transmission Group. The studies 
have the potential to require improvements to the Southern Company Transmission System. Some of these 
could be in the Georgia ITS. If System enhancements are pursued from these study results, then the impacts of 
the enhancements are included in the annual planning cycle. 
A. Interface Analysis 
The interfaces of the SBAA are evaluated annually as part of the planning process. The analysis is done to 
ensure that the Southern Balancing Authority can maintain all long-term, firm transmission commitments 
and reliability reserve margins. 
B. Northern Interface and Florida Interface Studies 
The Northern Interface Study and Florida Interface Study are done to ensure that the Southern Balancing 
Authority can maintain all long-term, firm transmission commitments and reserve margins while assessing 
the import and export capability of the Northern and Florida Interfaces. When a transmission project is 
identified by an Interface Study, the proposed recommendation will be included in the Analysis Results 
above.
C. Nuclear Final Safety Offsite Power Report (FSAR) Study 
The FSAR analysis is a requirement of the NUC-001 Nuclear Plant Interface Coordination for Southern 
Nuclear Operating Company and Transmission Planning. For GPC, this analysis is performed annually for Plant 
Vogtle and Plant Hatch and the results are communicated to Southern Nuclear.
D. Designation Studies 
A Designation Study is a study performed to identify the transmission system improvements needed to 
provide firm transmission capability for a resource designated to serve native load customers and 
wholesale network customers. 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 259 of 304
VI. APPENDIX 
A. Validation Files / Reports 
The transmission projects and operating guides listed were justified by data output from the report files listed 
below.
Table 10 PSSE Output Results
Version File Location
v1C - STRE (2025-2034) T:\TP-East\2024_TPE_Workplan\Screens\v1C
v2B - VAL (2025-2034) T:\TP-East\2024_TPE_Workplan\Screens\v2B
Table 11 Thermal Problem Reports
Version File Location
v1C - STRE (2025-2034) T:\TP-East\2024_TPE_Workplan\Screens\V1C\Reports
v2B - VAL (2025-2034) T:\TP-East\2024_TPE_Workplan\Screens\V2B\Reports\Final Report
Table 12 Voltage Problem Reports
Version File Location
v1C - STRE (2025-2034) T:\TP-East\2024_TPE_Workplan\Screens\V1C\Reports
v2B - VAL (2025-2034) T:\TP-East\2024_TPE_Workplan\Screens\V2B\Reports\Final Report
Table 13 Study Reports
Study Type File Location
P-Events T:\TP-OATT_RegionalPlanning\Misc. Studies\24-001_TPL-001_Compliance
Extreme Events T:\TP-OATT_RegionalPlanning\Misc. Studies\24-001_TPL-001_Compliance\ExtremeEvents
Northern Interface T:\TP-OATT_RegionalPlanning\Interface\2024\NIS
Florida Interface T:\TP-OATT_RegionalPlanning\Interface\2024\FIS
Nuclear FSAR - Hatch T:\TP-OATT_RegionalPlanning\Misc. Studies\24-002_Annual_FSAR\Reports
Nuclear FSAR - Vogtle T:\TP-OATT_RegionalPlanning\Misc. Studies\24-002_Annual_FSAR\Reports
Stability Studies T:\TP-Stab\Compliance_(3.009-ACT)\TPL-001
Designation Studies T:\TP-Strategic\2024
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 260 of 304
B. Generation Assumptions 
Base Case Definitions 
Table 14 Base Case Definitions
2024 Steady State Case Definitions
Name Prefix Suffix Load Level Solar Hydro Battery MISO Transfer
Summer Peak S SNWE Summer Peak On On Off 1000 S->N
Summer NS Regional Flows S NSEW Summer Peak On On Off 1000 N->S
Summer SN Max Regional Flows S SNmaxWE Summer Peak On On Off 2500 S->N
Summer NS Max Regional Flows S NSmaxEW Summer Peak On On Off 3000 N->S
Off Peak O SNWE Off Peak 
(70%)
On Motor 8hr Charge 1000 S->N
Off Peak NS Regional Flows O NSEW Off Peak 
(70%)
On Motor 8hr Charge 1000 N->S
Off Peak SN Max Regional Flows O SNmaxWE Off Peak 
(70%)
On Motor 8hr Charge 2500 S->N
Off Peak NS Max Regional Flows O NSmaxEW Off Peak 
(70%)
On Motor 8hr Charge 3000 N->S
Daylight Shoulder D SNWE Shoulder 
(93%)
On Motor 8hr Charge 1000 S->N
Daylight Shoulder NS Regional 
Flows
D NSEW Shoulder 
(93%)
On Motor 8hr Charge 1000 N->S
Daylight Shoulder SN Max 
Regional Flows
D SNmaxWE Shoulder 
(93%)
On Motor 8hr Charge 2500 S->N
Daylight Shoulder NS Max 
Regional Flows
D NSmaxEW Shoulder 
(93%)
On Motor 8hr Charge 3000 N->S
Shoulder H SNWE Shoulder 
(93%)
Off 50% Off 1000 S->N
Shoulder NS Regional Flows H NSEW Shoulder 
(93%)
Off 50% Off 1000 N->S
Shoulder SN Max Regional Flows H SNmaxWE Shoulder 
(93%)
Off 50% Off 2500 S->N
Shoulder NS Max Regional Flows H NSmaxEW Shoulder 
(93%)
Off 50% Off 3000 N->S
Hot Weather T SNWE Hot Weather 
(107%)
On On Discharge 1000 S->N
Hot Weather NS Regional Flows T NSEW Hot Weather 
(107%)
On On Discharge 1000 N->S
Winter W SNWE Winter Peak Off On 4hr Charge 1000 S->N
Winter NS Regional Flows W NSEW Winter Peak Off On 4hr Charge 1000 N->S
Winter SN Max Regional Flows W SNmaxWE Winter Peak Off On 4hr Charge 2500 S->N
Winter NS Max Regional Flows W NSmaxEW Winter Peak Off On 4hr Charge 3000 N->S
Spring Peak Z SNWE Spring Peak On On Off As Provided
Valley L SNWE Spring Valley Off Motor
/Pump
8hr Charge As Provided
Fall Peak F SNWE Spring Peak On On Off As Provided
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 261 of 304
Generation in Cases 
Table 15 ITS Generation Pmax in Cases
Unit Name Recipient Fuel
Type
PSSE Bus 
Number
Net Installed 
(MW)
ADDISON 1 (WEST GA) GPC PPA-CT REDACTED REDACTED
ADDISON 2 (WEST GA) GPC PPA-CT REDACTED REDACTED
ADDISON 3 (WEST GA) GPC PPA-CT REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
ALBANY RENEWABLE ENERGY GPC PPA-Bio REDACTED REDACTED
ALLA DAM GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
ALLIGATOR CREEK SOLAR GPC QF-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
AMERICUS BESS Undesignated Battery REDACTED REDACTED
AMERICUS 1 GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
AMERICUS 2 GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
AMERICUS 3 GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
ASI CLASSIC 210 MW – US 1: RINCON 
SOLAR CENTER
GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
ASI CLASSIC 210 MW – US 2: BUTLER 
SOLAR FARM
GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
ASI CLASSIC 210 MW – US 2: 
DECATUR COUNTY SOLAR PROJECT
GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
ASI CLASSIC 210 MW – US 2: OLD 
MIDVILLE RD LLC
GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
ASI PRIME 525 MW – US 1: BUTLER 
SOLAR
GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
ASI PRIME 525 MW – US 1: DECATUR 
PARKWAY SOLAR PROJECT
GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
ASI PRIME 525 MW – US 1: LS 
PAWPAW
GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
ASI PRIME 525 MW – US 2: LIVE OAK 
SOLAR
GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
ASI PRIME 525 MW – US 2: WHITE 
OAK SOLAR
GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
ASI PRIME 525 MW – US 2: WHITE 
PINE SOLAR
GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
BARTLETT'S FERRY 1 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
BARTLETT'S FERRY 2 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
BARTLETT'S FERRY 3 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
BARTLETT'S FERRY 4 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
BARTLETT'S FERRY 5 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
BARTLETT'S FERRY 6 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
BENNING SLR GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
BIRD DOG PV GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
BLACK WATER SOLAR GPC PPA Solar REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 262 of 304
Unit Name Recipient Fuel
Type
PSSE Bus 
Number
Net Installed 
(MW)
BOULEVARD 1 GPC Oil REDACTED REDACTED
BOWEN 1 GPC Coal REDACTED REDACTED
BOWEN 2 GPC Coal REDACTED REDACTED
BOWEN 3 GPC Coal REDACTED REDACTED
BOWEN 4 GPC Coal REDACTED REDACTED
BUFORD DAM 1+3 GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
BUFOR DAM 2 GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
BULLDOG PV GPC PPA Solar REDACTED REDACTED
CAMILLA SOLAR GPC PPA Solar REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
CARTERS DAM 1 GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
CARTERS DAM 2 GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
CARTERS DAM 3 GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
CARTERS DAM 4 GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
COOL SPRINGS GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
DAHLBERG 10 GPC PPA-CT REDACTED REDACTED
DAHLBERG 2 GPC PPA-CT REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
DAHLBERG 4 GPC PPA-CT REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
DAHLBERG 6 GPC PPA-CT REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
DAHLBERG 8 GPC PPA-CT REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
DOUBLE RUN SOLAR GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
DECATUR SOLAR GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
DUBLIN B1 GPC Bio REDACTED REDACTED
DOUGH PV GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 263 of 304
Unit Name Recipient Fuel
Type
PSSE Bus 
Number
Net Installed 
(MW)
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
EXELON HEARD 1 GPC PPA-CT REDACTED REDACTED
EXELON HEARD 2 GPC PPA-CT REDACTED REDACTED
EXELON HEARD 3 GPC PPA-CT REDACTED REDACTED
EXELON HEARD 4 GPC PPA-CT REDACTED REDACTED
EXELON HEARD 5 GPC PPA-CT REDACTED REDACTED
EXELON HEARD 6 GPC PPA-CT REDACTED REDACTED
FALL LANE SOLAR GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
FLINT RIVER 1 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
FLINT RIVER 2 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
FLINT RIVER 3 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
FLINT RIVER SOLAR (DECATUR SLR) GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
FORT BENNING SOLAR GPC Solar REDACTED REDACTED
FORT GORDON 1 SOLAR GPC Solar REDACTED REDACTED
FORT STEWART SOLAR GPC Solar REDACTED REDACTED
FORT VALLEY STATE UNIVERSITY GPC Solar REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
GASTON A GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
GEORGE DAM 1 GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
GEORGE DAM 2 GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
GEORGE DAM 3 GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
GEORGE DAM 4 GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
GEORGIA RENEWABLE POWER 
FRANKLIN LLC
GPC PPA-Bio REDACTED REDACTED
GEORGIA RENEWABLE POWER 
MADISON
GPC PPA-Bio REDACTED REDACTED
GOAT ROCK 3 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
GOAT ROCK 4 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
GOAT ROCK 5 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
GOAT ROCK 6 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
GOAT ROCK 7 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
GOAT ROCK 8 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
GREEN POWER SOLUTIONS GPC PPA-Bio REDACTED REDACTED
HARRIS 1 - GPC GPC PPA-CC REDACTED REDACTED
HARRIS 2 - GPC GPC CC REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
HATCH 1 GPC Nuclear REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 264 of 304
Unit Name Recipient Fuel
Type
PSSE Bus 
Number
Net Installed 
(MW)
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
HATCH 2 GPC Nuclear REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
HOBNAIL SOLAR GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
INTERNATIONAL PAPER - FLINT 
RIVER
GPC PPA-Bio REDACTED REDACTED
INTERNATIONAL PAPER - PORT 
WENTWORTH
GPC PPA-Bio REDACTED REDACTED
KINGS BAY SOLAR GPC Solar REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
LLOYD SHOALS 1 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
LLOYD SHOALS 2 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
LLOYD SHOALS 3 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
LLOYD SHOALS 4 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
LLOYD SHOALS 5 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
LLOYD SHOALS 6 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
LSS 50 MW - SIMON SOLAR FARM GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
LSS 50 MW - SOLAR D&D CAMILLA GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
MARINE CORPS LOGISTICS BASE GPC Solar REDACTED REDACTED
MAS GEORGIA LFG - PINE RIDGE GPC PPA-Bio REDACTED REDACTED
MAS GEORGIA LFG - RICHLAND 
CREEK
GPC PPA-Bio REDACTED REDACTED
MCDONOUGH 4 GPC CC REDACTED REDACTED
MCDONOUGH 5 GPC CC REDACTED REDACTED
MCDONOUGH 6 GPC CC REDACTED REDACTED
MCGRAU FORD BESS GPC Battery REDACTED REDACTED
MCINTOSH 10 GPC CC REDACTED REDACTED
MCINTOSH 11 GPC CC REDACTED REDACTED
MCINTOSH 1A GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
MCINTOSH 2A GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
MCINTOSH 3A GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
MCINTOSH 4A GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
MCINTOSH 5A GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
MCINTOSH 6A GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
MCINTOSH 7A GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
MCINTOSH 8A GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
MCMANUS 3A GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 265 of 304
Unit Name Recipient Fuel
Type
PSSE Bus 
Number
Net Installed 
(MW)
MCMANUS 3B GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
MCMANUS 3C GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
MCMANUS 4A GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
MCMANUS 4B GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
MCMANUS 4C GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
MCMANUS 4D GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
MCMANUS 4E GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
MCMANUS 4F GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
MID GEORGIA COGEN GPC PPA-Cogen REDACTED REDACTED
MONROE POWER GPC PPA-CT REDACTED REDACTED
MOODY AFB GPC Solar REDACTED REDACTED
MORGAN FALLS 1 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
MORGAN FALLS 2 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
MORGAN FALLS 3 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
MORGAN FALLS 4 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
MORGAN FALLS 5 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
MORGAN FALLS 6 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
MORGAN FALLS 7 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
MOSSY BRANCH GPC PPA-BES REDACTED REDACTED
NORTH HIGHLANDS 1 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
NORTH HIGHLANDS 2 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
NORTH HIGHLANDS 3 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
NORTH HIGHLANDS 4 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
OLIVER 1 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
OLIVER 2 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
OLIVER 3 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
OLIVER 4 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
PIEDMONT GREEN POWER GPC PPA-Bio REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDI 1400 MW - C&I: DOUGHERTY 
COUNTY SOLAR
GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
REDI 1400 MW - C&I: TANGLEWOOD 
SOLAR
GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
REDI 1400 MW - US 1: QUITMAN II 
SOLAR ENERGY CENTER
GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
REDI 1400 MW - US 1: QUITMAN 
SOLAR
GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
REDI 1400 MW - US 1: SOUTHERN 
OAK SOLAR
GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
REDI 1400 MW - US 1: TWIGGS 
COUNTY SOLAR
GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
REDI 1400 MW - US 2: BROKEN 
SPOKE (Hickory Park)
GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
REDI 1400 MW - US 2: COOL 
SPRINGS
GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 266 of 304
Unit Name Recipient Fuel
Type
PSSE Bus 
Number
Net Installed 
(MW)
ROBINS AFB GPC Solar REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
SCHERER 1 GPC Coal REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
SCHERER 2 GPC Coal REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
SCHERER 3 GPC Coal REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
SIMON SOLAR GPC Solar REDACTED REDACTED
SINCLAIR 1 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
SINCLAIR 2 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
SONNY PV GPC Solar REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
STAGECOACH SOLAR GPC Solar REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 267 of 304
Unit Name Recipient Fuel
Type
PSSE Bus 
Number
Net Installed 
(MW)
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
TALLULAH 1 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
TALLULAH 2 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
TALLULAH 3 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
TALLULAH 4 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
TALLULAH 5 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
TALLULAH 6 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
TERRORA 1 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
TERRORA 2 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
TIMBERLAND SOLAR GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
TUGALO 1 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
TUGALO 2 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
TUGALO 3 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
TUGALO 4 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
VOGTLE 1 GPC Nuclear REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
VOGTLE 2 GPC Nuclear REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
VOGTLE 3 GPC Nuclear REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
VOGTLE 4 GPC Nuclear REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
WALLACE DAM 1 PS GPC Pump Storage Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
WALLACE DAM 2 PS GPC Pump Storage Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
WALLACE DAM 3 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
WALLACE DAM 4 HY GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
WALLACE DAM 5 PS GPC Pump Storage Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
WALLACE DAM 6 PS GPC Pump Storage Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
WALTON COUNTY GPC PPA-CT REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
WANSLEY 1 GPC Coal REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 268 of 304
Unit Name Recipient Fuel
Type
PSSE Bus 
Number
Net Installed 
(MW)
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
WANSLEY 2 GPC Coal REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
WARNER ROBINS 1 GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
WARNER ROBINS 2 GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
WASHINGTON COUNTY GPC PPA-CT REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
WASHINGTON COUNTY SOLAR GPC PPA-Solar REDACTED REDACTED
WILSON 1A GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
WILSON 1B GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
WILSON 1C GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
WILSON 1D GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
WILSON 1E GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
WILSON 1F GPC CT REDACTED REDACTED
YATES 6 GAS GPC Oil/Gas Steam REDACTED REDACTED
YATES 7 GAS GPC Oil/Gas Steam REDACTED REDACTED
YONAH GPC Hydro REDACTED REDACTED
 FOOTNOTES:
1. VALUES FOUND IN TABLE MAY NOT REFLECT WHAT IS MODELED IN THE CASES. THE INFORMATION PROVIDED DOES NOT ALWAYS REFLECT 
OPERATIONAL LIMITS OR DESIGNATION AMOUNTS.
 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 269 of 304
Generation Scenario (Unit Off / Area Max) Cases 
Table 16 Generation Scenario (Unit Off) By Case Type
Generation Code Description Summer Peak Shoulder Off-Peak
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 270 of 304
Generation Code Description Summer Peak Shoulder Off-Peak
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 271 of 304
Generation Code Description Summer Peak Shoulder Off-Peak
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 272 of 304
C. Strategic Projects 
Ashley Park - Wansley 500kV Line 
TEAMS 21062
Project Need Date: June 1, 2029
Executive Summary
The construction of the Ashley Park – Wansley 500kV line aims to address the evolving dynamics within the 
Georgia Integrated Transmission System (ITS), primarily driven by the changes in generation and forecasted load 
growth. This project involves the construction of a new ~30-mile 500 kV line from Ashley Park to Wansley as 
shown in Figure 4. Additionally, supplemental projects include Ashley Park Line Termination (GPC) and Wansley 
Line Termination (MEAG). This project will be done in conjunction with GTC: Tenaska – Wansley 500kV (TEAMS 
21123).
The decision to undertake this project stems from the necessity to enhance available transmission capacity and 
mitigate thermal limits resulting from 500 kV contingencies under NERC TPL-001-5. This project will reduce flows 
and increase available capacity on various circuits, thereby alleviating or reducing thermal constraints on critical 
circuits under contingency scenarios. This solution is the result of joint planning efforts amongst the GA ITS 
Participants.
Compliance Statement
This project addresses problems associated with Category P1 events. These problems were identified as part of 
Southern Company’s Transmission Planning process in compliance with NERC Standard TPL-001-5.
RREDACTED
Figure 4 Area System Map
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 273 of 304
Background and Problem Description
The Ashley Park – Wansley 500kV line, in conjunction with the construction of the new GTC: Tenaska – Wansley 
500kV line, effectively reduces flows and increases available capacity on overloaded circuits shown in Table 17. 
Table 18 indicates capacity increases on non-overloaded facilities. Both tables show capacity increases in 
relation to existing facility ratings.
Table 17 Load Flow Reductions on Overloaded Facilities
Facility Name Facility Rating
(MVA) Loading Reduction
O'Hara - Charles 230kV REDACTED REDACTED
Loopers Farm - South Dalton REDACTED REDACTED
Villa Rica - Wansley 500kV REDACTED REDACTED
Dorsett - Thomaston 230kV REDACTED REDACTED
Bonaire Primary - Dorsett 230kV REDACTED REDACTED
Table 18 Capacity Increases on Non-Overloaded Facilities
Facility Name Facility Rating
(MVA)
Available Capacity Increase 
(MVA) Loading Reduction
O'Hara - Ashley Park 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
O'Hara - Dresden 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Dresden - Heard County 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Heard County - Wansley 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Heard County - Tenaska 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
In addition to solving thermal constraints and increasing capacity, the Ashley Park - Wansley 500kV along with 
the GTC: Tenaska – Wansley 500kV line provides improved voltage profiles for the west Georgia and greater 
Atlanta areas. Figures 5, 6, and 7 show the voltage difference on 500kV buses in the region with the addition of 
all new 500kV projects. 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 274 of 304
REDACTED
Figure 5 Voltage Improvements-Big Shanty
Figure 6 Voltage Improvements-Ohara
REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 275 of 304
Figure 7 Voltage Improvements-Tomochichi
 
Study Assumptions
• Load Flow Cases: 2024 series V2 
• Study Years: 2028 – 2034 
• Case Seasons: Summer Peak, Off-Peak, Daylight Shoulder, Dusk Shoulder
Discussion of Alternatives
The Preferred Plan ($REDACTED) consists of:
• Construction of the Ashley Park – Wansley 500 kV Line (~30 miles) with (3) 100C 1113 ACSR conductor.
• Expand Ashley Park and Wansley Primary 500 kV yards to connect & terminate the new line.
• Installation of communication equipment and integration with EMS.
The preferred plan accomplishes the following:
1. High-Capacity Corridor: Establishes a new 500 kV line from Ashley Park to Wansley, enhancing system 
capacity in the metro area.
2. Reduced Flows, Increased Capacity: Decreases loading and increases available capacity on multiple 
circuits, improving system reliability. 
3. Supports Generation Expansion: Facilitates integration of additional generation at existing facilities in 
area, promotes sustainability, and grid resilience.
4. Operational Flexibility: Provides significantly improved operational flexibility and reliability for system 
outages and future maintenance activities on existing facilities, particularly on the critical 500 kV system.
REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 276 of 304
Alternate Plans
• Alternate Plan 1: Do Nothing ($REDACTED). This is not a feasible option to remain in compliance with NERC 
Standard TPL-001-5. In addition to the TPL compliance implications of this option, the severity and 
breadth of identified system constraints would result in in a severe degradation of service to Georgia 
Power customers.
• Alternate Plan 2: Brute Force ($REDACTED). This involves the direct replacement or rebuild of the facilities 
listed in Table 19.
 Table 19 Brute Force Estimate
Facility Name Mileage Planning Grade Estimate
O’Hara - Charles 230kV Rebuild 14 REDACTED
Loopers Farm – South Dalton Jumper N/A REDACTED
Villa Rica - Wansley 500kV Rebuild 26 REDACTED
Dorsett – Thomaston 230kV Rebuild 39 REDACTED
Bonaire Primary – Dorsett 230kV Rebuild 17.6 REDACTED
Total 97 REDACTED
Alternate Plan 2 is not a feasible option given the following factors:
1. Accommodating and coordinating necessary outages to facilitate maintenance of existing 
facilities and the construction activities for system improvements 
2. Timing and reduced reliability exposure to system given length of corridors
Additionally, the Brute Force alternative estimates do not reflect the full scope of all necessary work and 
costs that would be required along with any additional generation redispatch impacts associated with 
the numerous required outages.
Conclusion and Recommendations
The Ashley Park – Wansley 500kV New Line was selected because it solves identified thermal constraints, 
provides additional 500kV corridor for generation power transfers, and minimizes outage impacts to the 
transmission system during construction.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 277 of 304
Farley (APC) – Tazewell 500kV Line 
TEAMS 21063
Project Need Date: June 1, 2030
Executive Summary 
The construction of the Farley (APC) – Tazewell 500 kV line aims to address the evolving dynamics within the 
Georgia Integrated Transmission System (ITS), primarily driven by changes in generation and forecasted load 
growth. This project involves the construction of a new ~120-mile 500 kV line from Farley (APC) to Tazewell as 
shown in Figure 8. Additionally, supplemental projects include Farley Line Termination (APC) and expansion of 
existing Tazewell 230kV station for new 500kV yard. This project will be done in conjunction with the GTC: 
Talbot #2 – Tazewell 500kV project (TEAMS 21076).
The decision to undertake this project stems from the necessity to enhance available transmission capacity and 
mitigate thermal limits resulting from 500 kV contingencies under NERC TPL-001-5. This project will reduce flows 
and increase available capacity on various circuits, thereby alleviating or reducing thermal constraints on critical 
circuits under contingency scenarios. This solution is the result of joint planning efforts amongst the GA ITS 
Participants.
REDACTED
Figure 8 Area System Map
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 278 of 304
Compliance Statement
This project addresses problems associated with Category P1 events. These problems were identified as part of 
Southern Company’s Transmission Planning process in compliance with NERC Standard TPL-001-5.
Background and Problem Description
The Farley - Tazewell 500 kV line, in conjunction with the construction of the new GTC: Talbot #2 – Tazewell 
500kV line, effectively reduces flows and increases available capacity on overloaded circuits shown in Table 20. 
Table 21 indicates capacity increases on non-overloaded facilities. Both tables show capacity increases in 
relation to existing facility ratings. 
Table 20 Low Flow Reductions on Overloaded Facilities
Facility Name
Facility Rating
(MVA) Loading Reduction
Raccoon Creek 500/230kV Autotransformer A REDACTED REDACTED
Cotton Primary - Scooter 230kV REDACTED REDACTED
Daisy - West Valdosta 230kV REDACTED REDACTED
Mitchell - Raccoon Creek 230kV REDACTED REDACTED
Raccoon Creek - Scooter 230kV REDACTED REDACTED
Kawikee - South Columbus 115kV REDACTED REDACTED
Moultrie - Thomasville 115V REDACTED REDACTED
Albany Primary - Palmyra 115kV REDACTED REDACTED
Blakely Primary - Lower River Road 115kV REDACTED REDACTED
Lizard Lope - Arlington Primary 115kV REDACTED REDACTED
Fortson - Talbot #2 230kV REDACTED REDACTED
Fortson - Goat Rock 230kV (Black) REDACTED REDACTED
Fortson - Goat Rock 230kV (White) REDACTED REDACTED
Americus - Thrill Hill 115kV REDACTED REDACTED
Table 21 Capacity Increases on Non-Overloaded Facilities
Facility Name Facility Rating
(MVA)
Available Capacity 
Increase
(MVA)
Loading Reduction
Arlington Primary - Giles 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Cuthbert Primary - Kawikee 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 279 of 304
In addition to solving thermal constraints and increasing capacity, the Farley – Tazewell 500kV line along with 
the GTC: Talbot #2 – Tazewell 500kV line provides improved voltage profiles for the southwest and west Georgia 
areas. Figure 9 shows the improved voltage profile on key 500kV bus in southwest Georgia.
Study Assumptions 
• Load Flow Cases: 2024 series V2 
• Study Years: 2028 – 2034 
• Case Seasons: Summer Peak, Off-Peak, Daylight Shoulder, Dusk Shoulder
Discussion of Alternatives
The Preferred Plan ($REDACTED) consists of:
• Construction of the Farley (APC) – Tazewell 500 kV Line (~120 miles) with (3) 100C 1113 ACSR conductor.
• Expand existing Tazewell 230kV yard to install new 500/230kV autotransformer and create new 5 
breaker 500kV ring. 500kV Ring will have line terminations to Farley (APC), Talbot #2, Blacksmith, and 
Talbot. 
• Terminate 500kV line at Farley (APC)
• Installation of communication equipment and integration with EMS.
The preferred plan accomplishes the following:
1. High-Capacity Corridor: Establishes a new 500 kV line from Farley to Tazewell, enhancing system 
capacity from South to North.
2. Reduced Flows, Increased Capacity: Decreases loading and increases available capacity on multiple 
circuits, improving system reliability. 
3. Supports Generation Expansion: Facilitates integration of additional generation at existing facilities 
along with new solar facilities, promotes sustainability, and grid resilience.
4. Operational Flexibility: Provides significantly improved operational flexibility and reliability for system 
outages and future maintenance activities on existing facilities, particularly on the critical 500 kV system.
Figure 9 Voltage Profile
REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 280 of 304
Alternate Plans
• Alternate Plan 1: Do nothing ($REDACTED). This is not a viable option to remain in compliance with NERC TPL001-5. In addition to the TPL compliance implications of this option, the severity and breadth of 
identified system constraints would result in in a severe degradation of service to Georgia Power 
customers.
• Alternate Plan 2: Brute Force ($REDACTED). This involves the direct replacement or rebuild of the facilities 
listed in Table 22.
Table 22 Brute Force Estimates
Facility Name Rebuild Line Length
(Miles) Planning Grade Estimate
Raccoon Creek 500/230kV Autotransformer A N/A REDACTED
Cotton Primary - Scooter 230kV 7.25 REDACTED
Daisy - West Valdosta 230kV 15.9 REDACTED
Mitchell - Raccoon Creek 230kV 7.68 REDACTED
Raccoon Creek - Scooter 230kV 8.21 REDACTED
Kawikee - South Columbus 115kV 9 REDACTED
Moultrie - Thomasville 115V 13.1 REDACTED
Albany Primary - Palmyra 115kV 1.92 REDACTED
Blakely Primary - Lower River Road 115kV 9.5 REDACTED
Lizard Lope - Arlington Primary 115kV 21.6 REDACTED
Fortson - Talbot #2 230kV 14 REDACTED
Fortson - Goat Rock 230kV (Black) 9.9 REDACTED
Fortson - Goat Rock 230kV (White) 10 REDACTED
Americus - Thrill Hill 115kV 19.11 REDACTED
Total 147.17 REDACTED
Alternate Plan 2 is not a feasible option given the following factors:
1. Accommodating and coordinating necessary outages to facilitate maintenance of existing 
facilities and the construction activities for system improvements 
2. Timing and reduced reliability exposure to system given length of corridors
3. Lack of solution robustness to facilitate power transfers from south Georgia to north Georgia 
driven by increased solar generation and load growth
Additionally, the Brute Force alternative estimates do not reflect the full scope of all necessary work and 
costs that would be required along with any additional generation redispatch impacts associated with 
the numerous required outages.
Conclusion and Recommendations
Although the Preferred Plan is not the least cost plan, it was selected because it solves identified thermal 
constraints, provides additional 500kV corridor for solar generation power transfers, and minimizes outage 
impacts to the transmission system during construction.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 281 of 304
Hatch – Wadley 500kV Line 
TEAMS 20756
Project Need Date: June 1, 2031
Executive Summary
The construction of the Hatch – Wadley Primary 500 kV Line aims to address the evolving dynamics within the 
Georgia Integrated Transmission System (ITS), primarily driven by the increasing penetration of renewable 
generation plants and forecasted load growth. This project involves the construction of a new ~65-mile 500 kV 
line from Hatch to Wadley Primary as shown in Figure 10. Additionally, supplemental projects include Hatch Line 
Termination (GPC) and Wadley Primary Line Termination (MEAG). 
The decision to undertake this project stems from the necessity to enhance available transmission capacity and 
mitigate potential thermal limits resulting from 500 kV contingencies under solar expansion scenarios. The 2023 
ITS solar sensitivity study identified numerous benefits associated with the Hatch – Wadley 500 kV line, including 
providing an additional high-capacity corridor from South to North for solar penetration level of REDACTED.
Furthermore, this project is anticipated to reduce flows and increase available capacity on various circuits, 
thereby alleviating or reducing thermal constraints on critical circuits under solar expansion scenarios. This 
solution is the result of joint planning efforts amongst the GA ITS Participants.
Figure 10 Area System Map
REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 282 of 304
Compliance Statement
This project addresses problems associated with Category P1 events. These problems were identified as part of 
Southern Company’s Transmission Planning process in compliance with NERC Standard TPL-001-5.
Background and Problem Description
The Hatch – Wadley 500 kV line effectively reduces flows and increases available capacity on the below circuits. 
Table 23 indicates the reduction in percent MVA of existing flow on the lines. Table 24 indicates capacity 
increases in percent MVA and total MVA in relation to existing line ratings. Figure 11 provides a regional 
overview highlighting some of the impacted areas experiencing flow reductions and capacity increases.
Table 23 Load Flow Reductions
Monitored Facility Rating 
(MVA)
Flow reductions
(% MVA)
Bonaire Primary - Kathleen 230 kV REDACTED REDACTED
Branch – Glenwood Springs 230 kV REDACTED REDACTED
Branch - Tiger Creek (Black) 230 kV REDACTED REDACTED
Branch - Tiger Creek (White) 230 kV REDACTED REDACTED
Branch - Warrenton Primary 230 kV REDACTED REDACTED
Eatonton Primary - Porterdale Primary 230 kV REDACTED REDACTED
Hatch - Vidalia 230 kV REDACTED REDACTED
Hatch 500/230 kV Bank #10 REDACTED REDACTED
Kathleen - Pitts 230 kV REDACTED REDACTED
North Dublin - Wadley Primary 230 kV REDACTED REDACTED
North Tifton - Pitts 230 kV REDACTED REDACTED
Sandersville #1 - Wadley Primary 230 kV REDACTED REDACTED
Thomson 500/230 kV Bank D REDACTED REDACTED
Tiger Creek – Wadley Primary 230 kV REDACTED REDACTED
Vidalia - Wadley Primary (White) 230 kV REDACTED REDACTED
Vidalia 230 kV Bus Tie REDACTED REDACTED
Wadley 500/230 kV Bank C REDACTED REDACTED
Wadley 500/230 kV LS Breaker #1 REDACTED REDACTED
Wadley 500/230 kV LS Breaker #2 REDACTED REDACTED
Mosley – Wadley 230 kV REDACTED REDACTED
Mosley – Vidalia 230 kV REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 283 of 304
Table 24 Capacity Increases
Monitored Facility Rating
(MVA)
Increase in 
Available Capacity
(% MVA)
Increase in
Available 
Capacity (MVA)
Hatch - Vidalia 230 kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Hatch 500/230 kV Bank #10 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Thomson 500/230 kV Bank D REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Tiger Creek - Wadley Primary 230 kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Vidalia - Wadley Primary (White) 230 kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Vidalia 230 kV Bus Tie REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Wadley 500/230 kV Bank C REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Wadley 500/230 kV LS Breaker #1 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Wadley 500/230 kV LS Breaker #2 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Mosley – Wadley 230 kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Mosley – Vidalia 230 kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Figure 11 Impacted Area
REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 284 of 304
Study Assumptions 
• Load Flow Cases: 2023 series V1 and V2 
• Study Years: 2028 – 2033 
• Case Seasons: Summer Peak, Off-Peak, Daylight Shoulder, Dusk Shoulder
Discussion of Alternatives 
The Preferred Plan ($REDACTED) consists of:
• Construction of the Hatch – Wadley Primary 500 kV Line (~65 miles) with (3) 100C 1113 ACSR conductor.
• Expand Hatch and Wadley Primary 500 kV yards to connect & terminate the new line.
• Installation of communication equipment and integration with EMS.
The preferred plan accomplishes the following:
1. High-Capacity Corridor: Establishes a new 500 kV line from Hatch to Wadley Primary, enhancing system 
capacity from South to North.
2. Reduced Flows, Increased Capacity: Decreases loading and increases available capacity on multiple 
circuits, improving system reliability. 
3. Supports Solar Expansion: Facilitates integration of solar generation, promotes sustainability, and grid 
resilience.
4. Operational Flexibility: Provides significantly improved operational flexibility and reliability for system 
outages and future maintenance activities on existing facilities.
Alternate Plans
• Alternate Plan 1: Do nothing ($REDACTED). The trend of increasing penetration of renewable (solar) 
generation plants on the Georgia Integrated Transmission System (ITS), and the resulting displacement 
of traditional fossil-fueled resources (particularly older coal facilities) is changing flow patterns on the 
system. These changes in addition to evolving interregional flow patterns and forecasted load growth 
are resulting in transmission congestion. If left unaddressed the system will not be able to facilitate 
future growth and maintain reliability requirements. This will introduce potential delays and limits until 
transmission improvements are identified and completed on an individual basis at the time of 
interconnection. 
Conclusion and Recommendations 
The Hatch – Wadley Primary 500 kV line project represents a strategic investment in the future reliability and 
efficiency of the Georgia Integrated Transmission System (ITS). Given the anticipated benefits, the GA ITS Solar 
Sensitivity Study team recommends proceeding with the implementation of the Hatch – Wadley 500kV project 
as part of the phased approach outlined in the 2023 Solar Sensitivity Analysis Results and Recommendations as 
presented to the Joint Committee on January 25, 2024.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 285 of 304
McGrau Ford – Middle Fork 500kV Line 
TEAMS 09661
Project Need Date: June 1, 2033
Executive Summary 
The construction of the McGrau Ford - Middle Fork 500kV transmission line is intended to address the 
unprecedented, forecasted load growth and the increase of solar penetration in the state of Georgia. The 
project builds a new 65 miles of 500kV line from Middle Fork to McGrau Ford as shown in Figure 12. 
Additionally, supplemental projects include the expansion of the 500kV yard at McGrau Ford (GPC) and the 
construction of a new 500kV yard at Middle Fork (GTC) for the line termination.
This project mitigates multiple thermal constraints under NERC TPL-001-5 and increases capacity in the 
northeast area of Georgia in addition to improving overall voltage profile of the area under key 500kV 
contingencies and unit out generation scenarios. Solar sensitivity studies, REDACTED of solar penetration,
showed that this new 500kV line increases capacity in transmission elements under solar expansion scenarios 
improving the transfer capability of generation in the area. This project will be done in conjunction with the GTC: 
East Walton-Middle Fork 500kV (TEAMS 21075). 
Compliance Statement 
This project addresses problems associated with Category P1 events. These problems were identified as part of 
Southern Company’s Transmission Planning process in compliance with NERC Standard TPL-001-5.
Background and Problem Description 
The McGrau Ford – Middle Fork 500kV in conjunction with the new GTC: East Walton-Middle Fork 500kV line 
project has multiple drivers: it alleviates thermal constraints, increases capacity in the area and provides voltage 
support for non-converge cases. 
Figure 12 Area System Map
REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 286 of 304
Thermal Impacts:
The McGrau Ford-Middle Fork 500kV line effectively reduces flow and increases capacity on the circuits listed 
below. Table 25 denotes flow reductions in percent difference between flow currently on the circuits compared 
to when the McGrau Ford – Middle Fork 500kV project is included. Table 26 denotes increases in available 
capacity compared to the MVA rating of the circuit.
Table 25 Load Flow Reductions
Monitored Facility Rating 
(MVA)
Base case, postcontingency loading
(MVA)
Post-contingency loading 
with MGF-MF 500kV
(MVA)
Flow 
reductions
(% MVA)
South Hall 500/230kV LS Breaker #2 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Norcross – South Hall 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
South Hall 500/230kV Bank A * REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
South Hall 500/230kV LS Breaker #1 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
South Hall – Winder Primary 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Middle Fork – Unity 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Center Primary – Commerce Primary 115kV * REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Athena – East Watkinsville 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Dawson Crossing – Nelson (White) 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #1 – Gainesville #2 (White) 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Dawson Crossing 230/115kV Bank A REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Bio – Pooles Creek 115kV * REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Avalon Junction – Pooles Creek 115kV * REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #2 – South Hall (White) 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #2 230/115kV Bank C REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #2 – South Hall (Black) 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #2 230/115kV Bank D REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #1 – Gainesville #2 (Black) 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Bio 230/115kV Bank A REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Bio 230/115kV Bank C REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Athens – East Watkinsville 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Athena – East Watkinsville 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Buford #3 - Suwanee REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Shoal Creek 230/115kV Bank A REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Northwinds – Ocee 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Buford Dam – Shoal Creek 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #2 – McEver Road 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Alpharetta – Northwinds 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
East Watkinsville 230/115kV Bank A * REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Alpharetta – Glaze Drive 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Dawson Crossing – Nelson (Black) 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Norcross – Ocee 230kV ** REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Norcross 500/230kV Bank D REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Norcross 500/230kV Bank E REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
* Indicates constraint seen in 2024 V2B screen, addressed by McGrau Ford – Middle Fork 500kV project
**Note: Norcross-Ocee 230kV post MVA exceeds the line rating due to the voltage on the line being higher under contingency causing the 
MVA to jump above the rating. However, the post contingency amps are REDACTED whereas the circuit rating is REDACTED. The line loading is 
calculated off amps not the MVA, and the loading is at REDACTED.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 287 of 304
Table 26 Capacity Increases
Monitored Facility Rating 
(MVA)
Increase in 
Available Capacity
(% MVA)
Increase in
Available Capacity 
(MVA)
Norcross – South Hall 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
South Hall 500/230kV Bank A REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
South Hall 500/230kV LS Breaker #2 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
South Hall 500/230kV LS Breaker #1 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
South Hall – Winder Primary 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Norcross 500/230kV Bank D REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Norcross 500/230kV Bank E REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Athena – East Watkinsville 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Dawson Crossing 230/115kV Bank A REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #2 – South Hall (White) 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #2 230/115kV Bank C REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #2 – South Hall (Black) 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #2 230/115kV Bank D REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Bio – Pooles Creek 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Avalon Junction – Pooles Creek 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Alpharetta – Northwinds 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Northwinds – Ocee 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Center Primary – Commerce Primary 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Alpharetta – Glaze Drive 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #1 – Gainesville #2 (White) 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Norcross – Ocee 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
East Watkinsville 230/115kV Bank A REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Middle Fork – Unity 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Dawson Crossing – Nelson (White) 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Bio 230/115kV Bank A REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Bio 230/115kV Bank C REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Shoal Creek 230/115kV Bank A REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #1 – Gainesville #2 (Black) 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #2 – McEver Road 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Athena – East Watkinsville 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Buford Dam – Shoal Creek 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Athens – East Watkinsville 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Buford #3 - Suwanee REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Dawson Crossing – Nelson (Black) 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Voltage Impact:
In addition to alleviating thermal constraints and increasing capacity, the McGrau Ford-Middle Fork 500kV line 
provides VAR support to the northeast area. The McGrau Ford – Middle Fork 500kV project along with the GTC: 
East Walton – Middle Fork 500kV project alleviates the severe voltage depression issues seen in many different 
scenarios, due to the voltage support provided by the connection of the northern 500kV system. The base 2024 
V2B cases had the stability-driven +150/-150 STATCOMs at McGrau Ford 230kV and Middle Fork 230kV placed 
online to alleviate non-converged case issues in later years. 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 288 of 304
Table 27 indicates post-contingency voltages in worst case scenarios, and equivalent amount of reactive support 
required at South Hall 500kV indicated as comparison to the level of voltage support that the McGrau Ford –
Middle Fork 500kV project provides to the area. 
Table 27 Post-contingency Voltages in Worst Case Scenarios
Case
PostContingency 
Voltage (PU)
Voltage with McGrau Ford –
Middle Fork 500kV (PU)
Equivalent amount of reactive 
support (MVAR)
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
The results in tables 28 and 29 show the post-contingency voltage results for non-converge base cases versus 
the McGrau Ford-Middle Fork 500kV line being in service with the mentioned STATCOMs OFF and ON,
respectively.
Table 28 provides the voltage comparison of the North GA 500kV system in the version 2B load flow cases with 
the McGrau Ford – Middle Fork 500kV line in service and stability STATCOMs off:
Bus Case
Base V2B PostContingency Voltage 
(PU) / (kV)
Post Contingency Voltage 
with McGrau Ford –
Middle Fork 500kV 
(PU) / (kV)
Difference
(PU) / (kV)
Big Shanty 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Norcross 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Bull Sluice 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Klondike 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Ohara 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Ashley Park 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Dresden 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Union City 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Villa Rica 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
McGrau Ford 
500kV
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
South Hall 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
East Walton 
500kV
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Table 28 Voltage Results STATCOM OFF
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and 
its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in 
accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 289 of 304
Figures 13 through 16 show the post-contingency voltage for base cases vs the McGrau Ford-Middle Fork 500kV line being in service and the 
STATCOMs off for several 500kV facilities in North Georgia.
Figure 13 Voltage Profile-Norcross-STATCOM Off Figure 14 Voltage Profile-Villa Rica-STATCOM Off
Figure 15 Voltage Profile-South Hall-STATCOM Off Figure 16 Voltage Profile-McGrau Ford-STATCOM Off
REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. 
Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of 
this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be 
disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 290 of 304
Table 29 provides the voltage comparison of the North GA 500kV system in the version 2B load flow base cases 
with the McGrau Ford – Middle Fork 500kV line in service with stability STATCOMs on:
Bus Case
Base V2B PostContingency Voltage
(PU) / (kV)
Post Contingency Voltage 
with McGrau Ford – Middle 
Fork 500kV (PU) / (kV)
Difference
(PU) / (kV)
Big Shanty 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Norcross 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Bull Sluice 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Klondike 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Ohara 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Ashley Park 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Dresden 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Union City 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Villa Rica 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
McGrau Ford 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
South Hall 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
East Walton 500kV
REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Table 29 Voltage Results STATCOM ON
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and 
its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in 
accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 291 of 304
Figures 17 through 20 show the post-contingency voltage for base cases vs the McGrau Ford-Middle Fork 500kV line being in service and the STATCOMs 
on for several 500kV facilities in North Georgia. 
 
Figure 17 Voltage Profile-Villa Rica-STATCOM ON
Figure 19 Voltage Profile-McGrau Ford-STATCOM Off
Figure 18 Voltage Profile-Norcross-STATCOM Off
Figure 20 Voltage Profile-South Hall-STATCOM Off
REDACTED REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 292 of 304
Figures 21 through 24 show the improved voltage profile on key buses with all new 500kV projects in place.
 REDACTED
 REDACTED
Figure 21 Voltage Profile-Norcross
Figure 22 Voltage Profile-McGrau Ford
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 293 of 304
REDACTED
REDACTED
Figure 23 Voltage Profile-East Walton
Figure 24 Voltage Profile-Rockville 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 294 of 304
Solar Sensitivity Analysis
Studies were performed to analyze the increase of capacity and flow reduction in the area with the McGrau Ford-Middle 
Fork 500kV line in service for Solar Sensitivity cases. Table 30 shows the loading of several lines and elements in the 
northeast area for solar sensitivity cases with the line out of service and in service. Table 31 shows the increase of 
capacity for these lines and elements with the line in service.
Table 30 Load Flow Reductions – Solar Sensitivity
Monitored Facility Rating 
(MVA)
SS Base case, postcontingency loading
(MVA)
SS postcontingency 
loading with 
MGF-MF 500kV
(MVA)
Flow 
reductions
(% MVA)
South Hall 500/230kV LS Breaker #2 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Norcross – South Hall 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
South Hall 500/230kV Bank A REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
South Hall 500/230kV LS Breaker #1 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
South Hall – Winder Primary 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Bull Sluice - Norcross 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Middle Fork – Unity 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Center Primary – Commerce Primary 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #1 – Gainesville #2 (White) 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Glaze Drive – Norcross 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Carters Dam – Nelson 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Bio 230/115kV Bank C REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Bio 230/115kV Bank A REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #2 – South Hall (White) 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #2 – South Hall (Black) 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #2 230/115kV Bank C REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #2 230/115kV Bank D REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #1 – Gainesville #2 (Black) 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Buford Dam – Shoal Creek 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Dawson Crossing 230/115kV Bank A REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Buford #3 - Suwanee REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Shoal Creek 230/115kV Bank A REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #2 – McEver Road 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Northwinds – Ocee 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Alpharetta – Northwinds 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Athena – East Watkinsville 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Norcross – Ocee 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Shoal Creek – South Hall 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Alpharetta – Glaze Drive 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Norcross 500/230kV Bank D REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Norcross 500/230kV Bank E REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
East Watkinsville 230/115kV Bank A REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Athena – East Watkinsville 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 295 of 304
Table 31 Capacity Increase – Solar Sensitivity
Monitored Facility Rating 
(MVA)
Increase in Available 
Capacity
(% MVA)
Increase in
Available Capacity 
(MVA)
Norcross – South Hall 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
South Hall 500/230kV Bank A REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
South Hall 500/230kV LS Breaker #2 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
South Hall 500/230kV LS Breaker #1 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Bull Sluice - Norcross 500kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
South Hall – Winder Primary 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Norcross 500/230kV Bank D REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Norcross 500/230kV Bank E REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Glaze Drive – Norcross 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Carters Dam – Nelson 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Shoal Creek – South Hall 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #2 – South Hall (White) 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #2 – South Hall (Black) 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #2 230/115kV Bank C REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #2 230/115kV Bank D REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Norcross – Ocee 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Alpharetta – Northwinds 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Northwinds – Ocee 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Alpharetta – Glaze Drive 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #1 – Gainesville #2 (White) 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Bio 230/115kV Bank C REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Bio 230/115kV Bank A REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Shoal Creek 230/115kV Bank A REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Center Primary – Commerce Primary 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Dawson Crossing 230/115kV Bank A REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #1 – Gainesville #2 (Black) 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Gainesville #2 – McEver Road 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Middle Fork – Unity 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
East Watkinsville 230/115kV Bank A REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Buford Dam – Shoal Creek 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Athena – East Watkinsville 230kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Buford #3 - Suwanee REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
Athena – East Watkinsville 115kV REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 296 of 304
Study Assumptions 
Base Case Thermal Study
• Load Flow Cases: 2024 series v2b
• Study Years: 2031-2034
• Case Seasons: Summer Peak, Off-Peak, Daylight Shoulder, Dusk Shoulder 
Voltage Comparison Study
• Load Flow Cases: 2024 series v2b
• Study Years: 2033-2034
• Case Seasons: Summer Peak - Only non-converged base cases were evaluated
Solar Sensitivity Thermal Study
• Load Flow Cases: 2024 series v2b
• Study Years: 2031-2034
• Solar Penetration: REDACTED
• Case Seasons: Summer Peak, Off-Peak, Daylight Shoulder, Dusk Shoulder 
Discussion of Alternatives 
The Preferred Plan ($REDACTED) includes the following:
• Construction of the McGrau Ford-Middle Fork 500 kV Line (approximately 65 miles) with (3) 100C 1113 ACSR 
conductor.
• Expand the McGrau Ford 500kV yard and convert to a ring bus and build a 500kV yard at Middle Fork to 
terminate the new line.
• Installation of communication equipment and integration with EMS.
The preferred plan accomplishes the following:
1. High-Capacity Corridor: Establishes a new 500 kV line from McGrau Ford to Middle Fork, connecting the 500kV 
system in the north of Georgia enhancing the system capacity.
2. Reduced Flows and Increased Capacity: Decreases flows and increases available capacity on multiple circuits, 
improving system reliability in the northeast.
3. Supports Generation Expansion: Facilitates integration of additional generation at existing facilities along with 
new solar facilities, promotes sustainability, and grid resilience.
4. Operational Flexibility: Provides significantly improved operational flexibility and reliability for system outages 
and future maintenance activities on existing facilities, particularly on the critical 500 kV system.
Alternate Plans
• Alternate Plan 1: Do nothing ($REDACTED). This is not a viable option to remain in compliance with NERC TPL-001-5. 
In addition, the trend of increasing penetration of renewable (solar) generation plants on the Georgia Integrated 
Transmission System (ITS), and the resulting displacement of traditional fossil-fueled resources (particularly 
older coal facilities) is changing flow patterns on the system. These changes in addition to evolving interregional 
flow patterns and forecasted load growth are resulting in transmission congestion. If left unaddressed the 
system will not be able to facilitate future growth and maintain reliability requirements. This will introduce 
potential delays and limits until transmission improvements are identified and completed on an individual basis 
at the time of interconnection. 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 297 of 304
• Alternate Plan 2: Brute Force (Total of $REDACTED). This involves the direct replacement or rebuild of the facilities 
noted in Table 32.
Table 32 Brute Force Estimates
Facility Name Rebuild Line Length 
(Miles) Planning Grade Estimate
Avalon Junction – Pooles Creek – Bio 115kV rebuild 20.5 REDACTED
Center Primary – Commerce Primary 115kV rebuild 17 REDACTED
East Watkinsville 230/115kV new auto transformer N/A REDACTED
Norcross – Ocee 230kV rebuild 3.5 REDACTED
South Hall 500/230kV new auto transformer N/A REDACTED
STATCOMs Installation for VAR Support N/A REDACTED
Total 41 REDACTED
Alternate Plan 2 is not a feasible option given the following factors:
1. Accommodating and coordinating necessary outages to facilitate maintenance of existing facilities and 
the construction activities for system improvements 
2. Timing and reduced reliability exposure to system given length of corridors
3. Lack of solution robustness to facilitate power transfers from south Georgia to north Georgia driven by 
increased solar generation and load growth
Additionally, the Brute Force alternative estimates do not reflect the full scope of all necessary work and costs 
that would be required along with any additional generation redispatch impacts associated with the numerous 
required outages.
Conclusion and Recommendations 
Although the Preferred Plan is not the least cost plan, it was selected because it solves identified thermal constraints, 
provides additional 500kV corridor for generation power transfers, and provides voltage support to the area and for 
non-converging cases. 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should 
be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this 
notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, should not be disclosed to Marketing Function 
employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 298 of 304
D. Fleet Transition Tables 
This appendix provides a comparison between the transmission projects listed in the Unit Retirement Study contained 
within Technical Appendix Volume 2 of the 2022 Georgia Power Integrated Resource Plan (Docket 44160) and the 
transmission projects contained within the 2024 Georgia Integrated Transmission System Ten Year Plan (2025 – 2034). 
For the Unit Retirement studies, Table 33 provides a breakdown of the studied generation scenarios.
Table 33 Unit Retirement Generation Scenarios
Scenario Generation Units Year Unavailable
Fleet 0 Wansley 1 & 2 2022
Bowen 1 & 2 2027
Fleet 0A Wansley 1 & 2 2022
Bowen 1 & 2 2027
Scherer 3 2022
Fleet 1 Wansley 1 & 2 2022
Bowen 1 & 2 2027
Scherer 1 - 3 2028
Fleet 2 Wansley 1 & 2 2022
Bowen 1 & 2 2027
Scherer 1 - 3 2028
Bowen 3 & 4 2028
For the 2024 Ten Year planning process, the coal generation units shown Table 34 were allowed to run throughout the 
planning horizon in both the version 1 and version 2 of the transmission planning load flow cases.
Table 34 Coal Generation Units
Generation Units
Bowen 1 & 2
Scherer 3
Bowen 3 & 4
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents 
shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, 
should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 299 of 304
Fleet Scenario 0:
Table 35 below notes the required projects from the Unit Retirement studies along with the current project number and need year of the project in the 2024 GA 
ITS Ten-Year Plan.
Table 35 Projects Still Required
Project 
Number Project Name
2021 Unit 
Retirement 
Study
Need Year
2023 GA 
ITS TYP
Need Year
2024 GA ITS 
TYP
Need Year
2021 Planning 
Grade Estimate
2023 Planning 
Grade Estimate
2024 Planning 
Grade Estimate
18153 BONAIRE PRIMARY - ECHECONNEE RECONDUCTOR 115KV (BONAIRE - RUSSELL PKWY)
(F.K.A. BONAIRE PRIMARY - ECHECONNEE 115KV) 2030 2025 2025 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
---
CAPITAL HEIGHTS - CARTER HILL ROAD - FISK ROAD 115KV
(APC Project) 2026 2025 2025 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
18800 ECHECONNEE - WELLSTON 115KV REBUILD (S WARNER ROBINS-WELLSTON)
(F.K.A. ECHECONNEE - WELLSTON 115KV) 2024 2025 2025 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
18774 GTC: HEARD COUNTY - TENASKA 500KV (NEW LINE)
(F.K.A. TENASKA - HEARD CO 500KV (NEW LINE)) 2024 2024 2025 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
19334 GTC: LAGRANGE - NORTH OPELIKA 230KV (NEW LINE)
(F.K.A. LAGRANGE - NORTH OPELIKA 230KV (NEW LINE)) 2027 2026 2026 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
18573
(F.K.A. 12016) ARKWRIGHT - LLOYD SHOALS 115KV 2024 2024 2027 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
18671 CORN CRIB - LAGRANGE PRIMARY 115KV RECONDUCTOR
(F.K.A. CORN CRIB - LAGRANGE 115KV) 2027 2024 COMPLETE REDACTED REDACTED ---
18104
(F.K.A. 18772)
KLONDIKE SWITCH REPLACEMENT
(F.K.A. KLONDIKE - NORCROSS 500KV SWITCH REPLACEMENT) 2024 2024 COMPLETE REDACTED REDACTED ---
Table 36 shows the projects no longer required to implement Fleet Scenario 0 from the 2024 GA ITS Ten-Year planning process.
Table 36 Projects No Longer Required
Project 
Number Project Name
2021 Unit 
Retirement Study
Need Year
2023 GA 
ITS TYP
Need Year
2024 GA 
ITS TYP
Need Year
2021 Planning 
Grade Estimate
2023 Planning 
Grade Estimate
2024 Planning 
Grade Estimate
19628 ARLINGTON PRIMARY - HWY45/234 RECONDUCTOR 115KV
(F.K.A. ARLINGTON PRIMARY - DAWSON PRIMARY 115KV) 2028 2029 --- REDACTED REDACTED ---
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents 
shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, 
should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 300 of 304
Fleet Scenario 0A:
Table 37 below notes the projects that required to implement Fleet Scenario 0A from the 2024 GA ITS Ten-Year planning process. 
Table 37 Projects Still Required
Project 
Number Project Name
2021 Unit 
Retirement 
Study
Need Year
2023 GA 
ITS TYP 
Need Year
2024 GA 
ITS TYP 
Need Year
2021 Planning 
Grade Estimate
2023 Planning 
Grade Estimate
2024 Planning 
Grade Estimate
18153 BONAIRE PRIMARY - ECHECONNEE RECONDUCTOR 115KV (BONAIRE - RUSSELL PKWY)
(F.K.A. BONAIRE PRIMARY - ECHECONNEE 115KV) 2030 2025 2025 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
19187 BREMEN - CROOKED CREEK 115KV
(F.K.A. BREMEN - CROOKED CREEK (APC) 115KV 2028 2025 2025 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
---
CAPITAL HEIGHTS - CARTER HILL ROAD - FISK ROAD 115KV
(APC Project) 2026 2025 2025 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
18800 ECHECONNEE - WELLSTON 115KV REBUILD (S WARNER ROBINS-WELLSTON)
(F.K.A. ECHECONNEE - WELLSTON 115KV) 2024 2025 2025 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
18774 GTC: HEARD COUNTY - TENASKA 500KV (NEW LINE)
(F.K.A. TENASKA - HEARD CO 500KV (NEW LINE)) 2024 2024 2025 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
19334 GTC: LAGRANGE - NORTH OPELIKA 230KV (NEW LINE)
(F.K.A. LAGRANGE - NORTH OPELIKA 230KV (NEW LINE)) 2027 2026 2026 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
19598 MEAG: DRESDEN - LAGRANGE PRIMARY 230KV UPGRADE & JUMPERS
(F.K.A. MEAG: DRESDEN - LAGRANGE 230KV LINE REBUILD) 2031 2026 2026 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
12016 ARKWRIGHT - LLOYD SHOALS 115KV 2024 2024 2027 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
19950 GTC: DRESDEN - TALBOT COUNTY 500KV LINE (NEW LINE) --- 2029 2029 --- REDACTED REDACTED
18671 CORN CRIB - LAGRANGE PRIMARY 115KV RECONDUCTOR
(F.K.A. CORN CRIB - LAGRANGE 115KV) 2027 2024 COMPLETE REDACTED REDACTED ---
18104
(F.K.A. 18772)
KLONDIKE SWITCH REPLACEMENT
(F.K.A. KLONDIKE - NORCROSS 500KV SWITCH REPLACEMENT) 2024 2024 COMPLETE REDACTED REDACTED ---
Table 38 shows the projects no longer required to implement Fleet Scenario 0A from the 2024 GA ITS Ten-Year planning process. 
Table 38 Projects No Longer Required 
Project 
Number Project Name
2021 Unit 
Retirement Study
Need Year
2023 GA 
ITS TYP
Need Year
2024 GA 
ITS TYP
Need Year
2021 Planning 
Grade Estimate
2023 Planning 
Grade Estimate
2024 Planning 
Grade Estimate
19628 ARLINGTON PRIMARY - HWY45/234 RECONDUCTOR 115KV
(F.K.A. ARLINGTON PRIMARY - DAWSON PRIMARY 115KV) 2028 2029 --- REDACTED REDACTED ---
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents 
shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, 
should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 301 of 304
Fleet Scenario 1:
Table 39 shows the projects still required to implement Fleet Scenario 1 from the 2024 GA ITS Ten-Year planning process. 
Table 39 Projects Still Required
Project 
Number Project Name
2021 Unit 
Retirement 
Study
Need Year
2023 GA ITS TYP 
Need Year
2024 GA ITS TYP 
Need Year
2021 Planning 
Grade Estimate
2023 Planning 
Grade Estimate
2024 Planning 
Grade Estimate
18153 BONAIRE PRIMARY - ECHECONNEE RECONDUCTOR 115KV (BONAIRE - RUSSELL PKWY)
(F.K.A. BONAIRE PRIMARY - ECHECONNEE 115KV) 2030 2025 2025
REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED
19187 BREMEN - CROOKED CREEK 115KV
(F.K.A. BREMEN - CROOKED CREEK (APC) 115KV 2028 2025 2025
REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED
---
CAPITAL HEIGHTS - CARTER HILL ROAD - FISK ROAD 115KV
(APC Project) 2026 2025 2025
REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED
18800 ECHECONNEE - WELLSTON 115KV REBUILD (S WARNER ROBINS-WELLSTON)
(F.K.A. ECHECONNEE - WELLSTON 115KV) 2024 2025 2025
REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED
18774 GTC: HEARD COUNTY - TENASKA 500KV (NEW LINE)
(F.K.A. TENASKA - HEARD CO 500KV (NEW LINE)) 2024 2024 2025
REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED
20002 GORDON - SANDERSVILLE #1 115KV LINE REBUILD
(F.K.A. GORDON - SANDERSVILLE #1 115KV) 2028 2026 2026
REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED
19334 GTC: LAGRANGE - NORTH OPELIKA 230KV (NEW LINE)
(F.K.A. LAGRANGE - NORTH OPELIKA 230KV (NEW LINE)) 2027 2026 2026
REDACTED
REDACTED REDACTED
19999 GTC: ROBINS SPRING BUS REPLACEMENT --- 2025 2026 --- REDACTED REDACTED
19636 HAMMOND - WEISS DAM (APC) 115KV REBUILD
(F.K.A HAMMOND - WEISS DAM (APC) 115KV) 2030 2026 2026 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
19598 MEAG: DRESDEN - LAGRANGE PRIMARY 230KV UPGRADE & JUMPERS
(F.K.A. MEAG: DRESDEN - LAGRANGE 230KV LINE REBUILD) 2031 2026 2026 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
12016 ARKWRIGHT - LLOYD SHOALS 115KV 2024 2024 2027 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
19950 GTC: DRESDEN - TALBOT COUNTY 500KV LINE (NEW LINE) --- 2029 2029 --- REDACTED REDACTED
18671 CORN CRIB - LAGRANGE PRIMARY 115KV RECONDUCTOR
(F.K.A. CORN CRIB - LAGRANGE 115KV) 2027 2024 COMPLETE REDACTED REDACTED ---
--- EUFALA - GEORGE DAM (COE) - WEBB 115KV 2030 2024 COMPLETE REDACTED REDACTED ---
18104
(F.K.A. 18772)
KLONDIKE SWITCH REPLACEMENT
(F.K.A. KLONDIKE - NORCROSS 500KV SWITCH REPLACEMENT) 2024 2024 COMPLETE REDACTED REDACTED ---
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents 
shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, 
should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 302 of 304
Table 40 shows the projects no longer required to implement Fleet Scenario 1 from the 2024 GA ITS Ten-Year planning process.
Table 40 Projects No Longer Required 
Project 
Number Project Name
2021 Unit 
Retirement Study
Need Year
2023 GA 
ITS TYP
Need Year
2024 GA 
ITS TYP
Need Year
2021 Planning 
Grade Estimate
2023 Planning 
Grade Estimate
2024 Planning 
Grade Estimate
19628 ARLINGTON PRIMARY - HWY45/234 RECONDUCTOR 115KV
(F.K.A. ARLINGTON PRIMARY - DAWSON PRIMARY 115KV) 2028 2029 --- REDACTED REDACTED ---
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents 
shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, 
should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 303 of 304
Fleet Scenario 2:
Table 41 shows the projects still required to implement Fleet Scenario 2 from the 2024 GA ITS Ten-Year planning process. 
Table 41 Projects Still Required
Project 
Number Project Name
2021 Unit 
Retirement 
Study
Need Year
2023 GA 
ITS TYP 
Need Year
2024 GA 
ITS TYP 
Need Year
2021 Planning 
Grade Estimate
2023 Planning 
Grade Estimate
2024 Planning 
Grade Estimate
18153 BONAIRE PRIMARY - ECHECONNEE RECONDUCTOR 115KV (BONAIRE - RUSSELL PKWY)
(F.K.A. BONAIRE PRIMARY - ECHECONNEE 115KV) 2030 2025 2025 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
19187 BREMEN - CROOKED CREEK 115KV
(F.K.A. BREMEN - CROOKED CREEK (APC) 115KV 2028 2025 2025 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
---
CAPITAL HEIGHTS - CARTER HILL ROAD - FISK ROAD 115KV
(APC Project) 2026 2025 2025 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
18800 ECHECONNEE - WELLSTON 115KV REBUILD (S WARNER ROBINS-WELLSTON)
(F.K.A. ECHECONNEE - WELLSTON 115KV) 2024 2025 2025 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
18774 GTC: HEARD COUNTY - TENASKA 500KV (NEW LINE)
(F.K.A. TENASKA - HEARD CO 500KV (NEW LINE)) 2024 2024 2025 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
20002 GORDON - SANDERSVILLE #1 115KV LINE REBUILD
(F.K.A. GORDON - SANDERSVILLE #1 115KV) 2028 2026 2026 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
19334 GTC: LAGRANGE - NORTH OPELIKA 230KV (NEW LINE)
(F.K.A. LAGRANGE - NORTH OPELIKA 230KV (NEW LINE)) 2027 2026 2026 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
19999 GTC: ROBINS SPRING BUS REPLACEMENT --- 2025 2026 --- REDACTED REDACTED
19636 HAMMOND - WEISS DAM (APC) 115KV REBUILD
(F.K.A HAMMOND - WEISS DAM (APC) 115KV) 2030 2026 2026 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
19598 MEAG: DRESDEN - LAGRANGE PRIMARY 230KV UPGRADE & JUMPERS
(F.K.A. MEAG: DRESDEN - LAGRANGE 230KV LINE REBUILD) 2031 2026 2026 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
12016 ARKWRIGHT - LLOYD SHOALS 115KV 2024 2024 2027 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
19635 GTC: HICKORY LEVEL - VILLA RICA PRIMARY 230KV (Replace jumpers and reconductor)
(F.K.A. HICKORY LEVEL - VILLA RICA PRIMARY 230KV) 2030 2029 2027 REDACTED REDACTED REDACTED
19950 GTC: DRESDEN - TALBOT COUNTY 500KV LINE (NEW LINE) --- 2029 2029 ---
REDACTED REDACTED
18671 CORN CRIB - LAGRANGE PRIMARY 115KV RECONDUCTOR
(F.K.A. CORN CRIB - LAGRANGE 115KV) 2027 2024 COMPLETE REDACTED REDACTED ---
---
EUFALA - GEORGE DAM (COE) - WEBB 115KV
(APC Project) 2030 2024 COMPLETE REDACTED REDACTED ---
18104
(F.K.A. 18772)
KLONDIKE SWITCH REPLACEMENT
(F.K.A. KLONDIKE - NORCROSS 500KV SWITCH REPLACEMENT) 2024 2024 COMPLETE REDACTED REDACTED ---
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

CRITICAL ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION - CONFIDENTIAL. This data is confidential CEII and is subject to Regulation by CFR Sec. 388.113. Recipient should be aware that disclosure of this material and its contents 
shall be handled in accordance with CEII procedures. Any and all duplications of this data must contain this notification. This document contains non-public transmission information and in accordance with FERC policy, 
should not be disclosed to Marketing Function employees.
2024 GA ITS Ten-Year Plan (2025-2034) Page 304 of 304
Table 42 shows the projects no longer required to implement Fleet Scenario 2 from the 2024 GA ITS Ten-Year planning process.
Table 42 Projects No Longer Required
Project 
Number Project Name
2021 Unit 
Retirement Study
Need Year
2023 GA 
ITS TYP
Need Year
2024 GA 
ITS TYP
Need Year
2021 Planning 
Grade Estimate
2023 Planning 
Grade Estimate
2024 Planning 
Grade Estimate
19628 ARLINGTON PRIMARY - HWY45/234 RECONDUCTOR 115KV
(F.K.A. ARLINGTON PRIMARY - DAWSON PRIMARY 115KV) 2028 2029 --- REDACTED REDACTED ---
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

[D2]
ITS LOSS STUDY

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 1 of 27
2024 ITS LOSS STUDY 
REPORT TO THE 
TRANSMISSION PLANNING 
WORK GROUP 
January 14, 2025 
Members of ITS Loss Study Working Group 
Ken Wofford Georgia Transmission Corporation 
Lance Djibo Georgia Transmission Corporation 
Rafael J. Bautista Georgia Power Company 
Kinte Corey Seay Georgia Power Company 
Pekir Joseph Georgia Power Company 
Aref Moradkhani Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia 
Julie Bezabih Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia 
Jeremy Talley Dalton Utilities 
Tyler Eaton Dalton Utilities 
 

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 2 of 27
Table of Contents 
I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY .................................................................................................... 3
INTRODUCTION .......................................................................................................................... 3
METHODOLOGY ......................................................................................................................... 3
EXHIBIT 1 (2024 ITS DEMAND LOSSES) ................................................................................. 8
EXHIBIT 2 (2024 ITS ENERGY LOSSES) .................................................................................. 9
II. Introduction ......................................................................................................................... 10
Work Plan ..................................................................................................................................... 10
Outline of Report .......................................................................................................................... 10
III. Electrical Losses at the “A” Level ..................................................................................... 11
Generator Step-up Transformer Loss............................................................................................ 11
IV. Electrical Losses at the B1 to D Levels Bulk .................................................................... 11
A. Transmission Losses (B) ......................................................................................................... 11
B. 230/XX and 115/XX Transformer Loss (T) ............................................................................ 12
C. Station Service Transformer Loss (SS) ................................................................................... 13
D. Sub-transmission Line Loss and XX/69 and XX/46 Transformer Loss (S) ........................... 13
V. Other Components and Adjustments ................................................................................ 14
A. Capacitor and Reactor Loss .............................................................................................. 14
B. Catenary/Equivalencing Adjustment ................................................................................ 14
C. Contact Resistance Loss ................................................................................................... 14
D. Corona Loss ...................................................................................................................... 15
E. Deviation from Base Case Interchange Schedules Loss ................................................... 15
F. Deviation in Inadvertent Interchange (Loop Flow) Loss ...................................................... 15
G. E/M Fields Loss ................................................................................................................ 16
H. Harmonic Distortion Loss ................................................................................................. 16
I. Insulator Leakage Loss .......................................................................................................... 16
J. Line Out Operation Adjustment ............................................................................................ 17
K. Overhead Ground Wire (OHGW) Loss ............................................................................ 17
L. Power Factor Adjustment ................................................................................................. 17
M. Temperature Compensation of Test Resistances Loss...................................................... 18
N. Unbalanced System Operation Loss ................................................................................. 18
O. Unmetered Auxiliary Equipment ...................................................................................... 18
APPENDIX ............................................................................................................................... 20
APPROVAL PAGE .................................................................................................................. 27

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 3 of 27
ITS LOSS STUDY REPORT 
I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
INTRODUCTION 
The ITS Loss Study Working Group has completed an analysis of estimated losses on the 
Integrated Transmission System for calendar year 2024. This study used ITS loss studies 
performed in 2018, 2014, 2008, 2002, 1995 and 1987 which included estimates of peripheral 
components contributing to overall system losses that have not been reflected in typical load flow 
computer program analysis. 
METHODOLOGY 
This study was conducted in two stages. The first stage consisted of modeling the transmission 
system (115 kV and above) as well as determining values to be used for estimating bulk 
transmission losses, losses in 230/xx and 115/xx transformers, losses resulting from serving station 
service loads, and losses on the sub-transmission system (46 kV and 69 kV). These estimated 
losses were computed from load flow results for both peak demand and average energy, using peak 
hour cases for six different day types: Summer weekday & weekend, winter weekday & weekend 
and spring/fall weekday & weekend. The peak demand loss factor is based on a composite of 42 
load flow cases and the average energy loss factor is based on a composite of 5904 load flow cases. 
In an attempt to reduce anomalies, the load shapes for the six-day types (144 cases from 24 hourly 
cases for each of the six-day types) were based on an average of the loads from 2015 through 2020. 
And, since the 2020 load was atypical due to the pandemic, 2015 through 2019 were extrapolated 
to produce more “typical” values for the peak, annual energy and load factor for 2020. These 2020 
values are used in some of the calculations that go into the study. 
The second stage of the study addressed 15 components which the working group felt contribute 
to system losses but which would not be reflected in traditional load flow modeling. This analysis 
involved recalculating the loss values of the 15 components based on recent data. 
The resulting loss factors are based on the v1Cs24 ITS base cases. (See Figure 1: Base Case Loss 
Trend). 

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 4 of 27
Figure 1: Base Case Demand Loss Trend
Note: The ITS demand loss demand factor history: 2.5690% – 2022 through 2024
2.7834% – 2019 through 2021
2.9717% – 2015 through 2018
3.2586% – 2006 through 2014
3.8060% – 1996 through 2005
4.1276% – 1987 through 1995
Figure 1 data points are the average ITS demand losses on the bulk system from the base 
cases. For example, the 1.8579% in 2024 in the chart is the average ITS demand losses from 
the S24vxxs24.sav cases. The demand loss factor, e.g., 2.7481% in 2024 is the total 
transmission demand losses, as shown in Exhibit 1.

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 5 of 27
RESULTS 
Summaries of the numerical results of these studies are included as Exhibits 1 and 2. Based on this 
study, total demand loss on ITS transmission system is 2.7481% of the total system load, while 
total energy loss is 3.0217% of the average load. Figures 2 and 3 illustrate the service level 
designation and the system power flow orientation. 
The majority of both demand and energy losses come from bulk transmission, transmission 
substations, station service transformers and sub-transmission. These losses are 2.5629% for 
demand and 2.7058% for energy, which account for approximately 93.2% and 89.2% of total 
demand and energy losses respectively, which was the expected result. 
Losses due to the other components on the system, such as capacitors and reactors, catenary, 
contact resistances, corona, deviation from base case schedules, deviation in inadvertent 
interchange (loop flows), electro-magnetic fields, harmonics, insulator leakage, line out operation, 
overhead ground wire losses, power factor, temperature compensation resistance, unbalanced 
system operation and unmetered auxiliary equipment were calculated for both demand and energy 
by using recent data for the ITS system and applying the appropriate formulas identified in and 
since the 1987 study. Demand losses for these components account for 0.1852% of total load, 
while energy losses account for 0.3288% of the average load. 
In summary, peak demand and average energy losses are in similar range as in previous years. As 
expected, the highest percentage loss on the bulk transmission system should occur during peak 
load conditions. However, the largest percentage losses on several other components occur during 
lower load levels due to the no-load components of transformers, adverse weather conditions 
affecting corona losses, etc. 
CONCLUSIONS 
Because of the consistency in results of this study with prior studies and consistency between 
demand and energy losses, the Working Group concluded that the loss factors shown on the 
attached summary sheets are the most accurate information available at this time. Further, as major 
changes planned in the transmission system and major changes expected in patterns of load and 
generation on the integrated system occur, these numbers should be updated. 
RECOMMENDATIONS 
x Recognize the attached loss factors as the most accurate available currently. 
x Continue to track the losses in the contract cases where the model year equals the series 
year for each version of each series of cases. Calculate the three-year rolling average. 
x Update the study every 3 years or when the three-year rolling average of the loss factor 
changes from that in the latest approved, in-use ITS loss factor by 0.1%. 
x Use base cases without NSEW or SNWE transfers and account for these transfers based 
on input from operations. 

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 6 of 27
Figure 2: Service Level Designation 
And 
Power Flow Diagram 
Service Level 
Territorial Input (tie-lines, low side of GSU’s) 
 “A” 
Step-up Substations at Generator Plant 
“B-1” 
Transmission Lines (115 to 500 KV) 
“B-2” 
Transmission Substations 
“C” 
Sub-Transmission Lines 
(38 KV to 69 KV) 
Distribution Substations 
“D” 
Primary Distribution Lines 
(25 KV and Lower) 
“F” 
Line Transformers 
“G” 
Indicates direction of power flow 

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 7 of 27
Figure 3: Service Level Designation and Power Flow Diagram 
"B1" to "D" = "Transmission" + 15 OC's + Adj. + "T" + "S" + "SS" Off-System "B1" to High-Side Meter = "Transmission" + 15 OC's + Adjustment
Demand 1.8107% + 0.1852% + 0% + 0.4909% + 0.1431% + 0.1182% = 2.7481% Demand 1.8107% + 0.1852% + 0% = 1.9959%
Energy 1.9768% + 0.3271% + 0% + 0.5007% + 0.1034% + 0.1249% = 3.0329% Energy 1.9768% + 0.3271% + 0% = 2.3039%
Level "A" Level "B1" Transmission = "B" Bulk Transfers = "Transmission" + 15 OC's w/o "S" + Adj. + "SS"/3
Generator Demand 1.8107% + 0.1787% + 0% + 0.1182%/3 = 2.0288%
"Transmission" = "B" Energy 1.9768% + 0.3217% + 0% + 0.1249%/3 = 2.3401%
Demand 1.8107%
GSU Energy 1.9768%
Transmission = "B"
Transmission = "B" Level "C"
"T"
Transmission = "B" Demand
Energy
Transmission = "B"
Level "D" Low-Side Meter
High-Side Meter Distribution
Level "C"
ITS Wide "S" = Sub-Transmission
"SS" "SS" = Station Service
Demand "T" = Transformer
Energy
15 Other Components
Demand With "S" & "T"
Energy Sub-Transmission "S"
Demand
Demand Without "S" Energy
Energy
Demand Without "S" or "T"
Energy
Adjustment for 2024 (Study Year) Level "D" Low-Side Meter
To 2024 Loss Trend 0%
Distribution
0.4909%0.5007%
0.3126%0.1182%0.1249%0.1852%0.3271%0.3217%0.1735%0.1787%
0.1431%0.1034%
M
M
M

			 PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 8 of 27
EXHIBIT 1 (2024 ITS DEMAND LOSSES) 
B1 TO D MAJOR COMPONENTS 2024 2021 Delta
 % % %
Bulk Transmission B 1.8107 1.6511 0.1596 (1)
230/xx and 115/xx Transformers T 0.4909 0.4804 0.0105 (2)
Station Service SS 0.1182 0.1251 -0.0069 (2)
Subtransmission (69kV and 46 kV) S 0.1431 0.1450 -0.0019
Subtotal: 2.5629 2.4016 0.1613
OTHER COMPONENTS 2024 2021 Delta
 % % %
Capacitors and Reactors 0.0069 0.0071 -0.0002
Catenary Adjustment 0.0391 0.0359 0.0032
Contact Resistances 0.0001 0.0001 0.0000
Corona 0.0202 0.0191 0.0011
Deviation From Base Case Schedules 0.0000 0.0000 0.0000
Deviation in Inadvertent Interchange 0.0297 0.0232 0.0065
E/M Fields 0.0054 0.0050 0.0004
Harmonics 0.0015 0.0014 0.0001
Insulator Leakage 0.0188 0.0189 -0.0001
Line-Out Operation Adjustment 0.0059 0.0038 0.0021
OHGW 0.0274 0.0251 0.0023
Power Factor Adjustment 0.0032 0.0024 0.0008 (2)
Temperature Compensation of Resistance 0.0000 0.0000 0.0000
Unbalanced System Operation 0.0244 0.0228 0.0016
Unmetered Auxiliary Equipment 0.0026 0.0026 0.0000
Subtotal: 0.1852 0.1674 0.0178
Total Demand Losses 2.7481 2.5689 0.1792
Adjustment For Trend in Base Case Losses 0.0000 0.0000 0.0000
2.7481 2.5689 0.1792
(1) System Topology changes
(2) Updated input data
2024 2021 Delta
Peak Demand = 25,852 25,879 -27 MW
Energy Use = 151,048,060 132,753,388 18,294,672 GWh
Load Factor = 66.52% 58.40% 8.12%
TOTAL TRANSMISSION DEMAND LOSSES (%)
EXHIBIT 1
2024 ITS DEMAND LOSSES

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 9 of 27
EXHIBIT 2 (2024 ITS ENERGY LOSSES) 
B1 TO D MAJOR COMPONENTS 2024 2021 Delta
 % % %
Bulk Transmission B 1.9768 1.4657 0.5111 (1)
230/xx and 115/xx Transformers T 0.5007 0.4466 0.0541 (2)
Station Service SS 0.1249 0.1249 0.0000
Subtransmission (69kV and 46 kV) S 0.1034 0.1106 -0.0072 (2)
Subtotal: 2.7058 2.1478 0.5580
OTHER COMPONENTS 2024 2021 Delta
 % % %
Capacitors and Reactors 0.0038 0.0043 -0.0005
Catenary Adjustment 0.0416 0.0315 0.0101
Contact Resistances 0.0001 0.0001 0.0000
Corona 0.0931 0.0845 0.0086
Deviation From Base Case Schedules 0.0000 0.0000 0.0000
Deviation in Inadvertent Interchange 0.0539 0.0397 0.0142 (2)
E/M Fields 0.0120 0.0137 -0.0017
Harmonics 0.0016 0.0012 0.0004
Insulator Leakage 0.0335 0.0323 0.0012
Line-Out Operation Adjustment 0.0063 0.0015 0.0048
OHGW 0.0291 0.0221 0.0070
Power Factor Adjustment 0.0030 0.0003 0.0027
Temperature Compensation of Resistance 0.0000 0.0000 0.0000
Unbalanced System Operation 0.0452 0.0354 0.0098
Unmetered Auxiliary Equipment 0.0039 0.0045 -0.0006
Subtotal: 0.3271 0.2711 0.0560
Total Energy Losses 3.0329 2.4189 0.6140
Adjustment For Trend in Base Case Losses 0.0000 0.0000 0.0000
3.0329 2.4189 0.6140
(1) System Topology changes
(2) Updated input data
2024 2021 Delta
Peak Demand = 25,852 25,879 -27 MW
Energy Use = 151,048,060 132,753,388 18,294,672 GWh
Load Factor = 66.52% 58.40% 8.12%
TOTAL TRANSMISSION ENERGY LOSSES (%)
EXHIBIT 2
2024 ITS ENERGY LOSSES

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 10 of 27
ITS LOSS STUDY REPORT 
II. Introduction 
This report is the most recent in a series of studies directed at determining losses on the Integrated 
Transmission System. The primary purpose of these studies has been to determine loss factors to 
be used in adjusting metered loads at delivery points to a common reference point (B1). These 
factors are currently used by the ITS participants for allocation of transmission investment 
responsibility and are made available to other parties for use as appropriate. In this study, 15 
peripheral components, which contribute to overall system losses but are not reflected in load flow 
computer programs, were computed to more accurately reflect the total system losses. 
Work Plan 
This study was conducted in two stages. The first stage consisted of modeling the transmission 
system (115 kV and above) as well as determining values to be used for estimating bulk 
transmission losses, losses in 230/xx and 115/xx transformers, losses resulting from serving station 
service loads, and losses on the sub-transmission system (46 kV and 69 kV). These estimated 
losses were computed from load flow results for both peak demand and average energy, using peak 
hour cases for six different day types: Summer weekday & weekend, winter weekday & weekend 
and spring/fall weekday & weekend. The peak demand loss factor is based on a composite of 42 
load flow cases and the average energy loss factor is based on a composite of 5904 load flow cases. 
To reduce anomalies, the load shapes for the six-day types (144 cases from 24 hourly cases for 
each of the six-day types) were based on an average of the loads from 2015 through 2020. And, 
since the 2020 load was atypical due to the pandemic, 2015 through 2019 were extrapolated to 
produce more “typical” values for the peak, annual energy and load factor for 2020. These 2020 
values are used in some of the calculations that go into the study. 
The second stage of the study addresses 15 components as specified in ITS Planning Procedure 
No. 21, ITS Loss Study Methodology. This analysis involved recalculating the loss values of the 
15 components based on recent data. 
Outline of Report 
The following section includes a summary of the methodology and results of each of the 
approximately 20 factors which have been analyzed as contributing to overall system losses. The 
next section of the report contains the conclusions and recommendations regarding the results of 
this study as well as suggestions for further study. In addition, a limited number of extensive 
appendices have been prepared which contain the detailed work papers, relevant source documents 
and other references used in the analysis. 
 

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 11 of 27
III. Electrical Losses at the “A” Level 
Generator Step-up Transformer Loss 
For the purposes of this study, we have modeled the system so that all GSU’s included in ITS 
system were assigned to a non-ITS zone (we chose Zone 251 in this case). These GSU losses are 
not included in the loss factors shown in Exhibits 1 and 2. 
The demand step-up losses (service level A-B1) on GSU’s were 66.50 MW or 0.2418% of the ITS 
connected generation, which was 27,502 MW. 
Note that the denominator here (MW at the low side of the GSU) is different from the denominator 
used in other parts of this study (load + losses, or equivalently the sum of inputs to the ITS network 
from the high side of GSU’s and from tie lines at the ITS border). Therefore, the loss percentages 
are not directly additive. If A-B1 losses are 0.2418% and B1-D losses are 2.5629%, then the 
proper calculation for A-D losses is: 
1 - ((1 - 0.002418) x (1 - 0.025629)) = 2.8046%, not 0.002418 + .025629 = 2.8108%. 
The annual energy losses on GSU’s were 423,457 MWh or 0.3019% of the annual ITS generation, 
which was 140,260,043 MWh. 
IV. Electrical Losses at the B1 to D Levels Bulk 
A. Transmission Losses (B) 
Load Flow 
The primary purpose of the utility load flow computer program is to simulate the behavior of the 
power system in terms of line loadings and bus voltages for a given set of input conditions. The 
load flow program models steady state performance, that is, the load flow solution of the given set 
of input conditions assumes that the system is free to operate in this mode until the input is 
changed. One of the many features of the utility load flow program is its ability to calculate “I 
squared R” losses for a designated system representation. Accordingly, the bulk transmission (115 
kV, 230 kV and 500 kV) network system estimated losses were calculated using the load flow 
computer program. 
Even though the aggregate Georgia load and territorial supply can be forecast with reasonable 
accuracy, individual substation loads, and individual generator outputs cannot be predicted with 
the same confidence. Fortunately, all the individual loads are distributed throughout the state and 
each load is small with respect to the total aggregate Georgia load. As a result, the ability to 
forecast each load accurately does not greatly impact the ability to estimate “I squared R” losses 
for the Georgia ITS. The generation, however, is aggregated and in terms of megawatts (with 
respect to the Georgia Territorial Supply) some of the plants are sizable. As a result, the generation 

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 12 of 27
dispatch does significantly affect losses. A probabilistic generation dispatch approach was utilized 
to not have a disproportionate effect of any one dispatch on transmission losses. 
Load Flow Cases 
This study was performed on the Southern Electric System transmission planning 2024 series, 
version 1C summer, winter, and Fall Peak power flow cases representing 2024 expected 
conditions. The peak demand loss factor is based on a composite of the no-unit-off base case and 
the 41 most probable single-unit and double-unit out power flow cases. The average energy loss 
analysis was based on a composite of the no-unit-off base case and the 40 most probable singleunit and double-unit out load flow cases, each modeled at 144 different load levels representing 
hourly cases for six different day types: Summer weekday & weekend, winter weekday & weekend 
and spring/fall weekday & weekend. A total of 5904 cases were used to develop the energy loss 
factor. The unit-out probability analysis was based on data obtained from SCS Resource Planning 
Department. Using the forced outage rates of the largest units in the state of Georgia and other 
large units in the Southern Electric System’s Bulk Power pool, the probability that one large unit 
at each plant was forced off-line was calculated for each case. Sibling unit outages were 
considered as identical conditions and smaller units were considered always available. See Tables 
1 and 2 in the Appendix for the lists of Unit-out probabilities. 
Tools used in this analysis were Siemens Power Technologies International PSS®E power flow 
software and the SCS-developed economic dispatch program. This process captured the megawatt 
losses on the ITS as modeled from the high-side of the generator step-up transformers to the highside of the distribution transformers. 
The recommended units were taken off-line and then the Southern System was economically redispatched. For the energy cases, Area 1 load was scaled and a typical hydro scheduled applied 
before the re-dispatch (see Table 3 in the Appendix for the hydro schedules used, and Table 4 for 
the load shapes of each day type). For each case, ITS losses were then captured, and the resultant 
Bulk Transmission percentage loss was calculated as the weighted average megawatt loss divided 
by the sum of the peak megawatt load plus the weighted average megawatt loss (see Table 5 in the 
Appendix). The ITS Loss Study Working Group found that the value of loss attributable to the 
Bulk Transmission system, excluding GSU transformers, to be 1.8107% for demand loss and 
1.9768% for energy loss. These values include “no load” losses for the transformers with lowside voltages of 115 kV and above. “No load” losses are not represented in the power flow model 
and are taken from manufacturer test reports and approximations. 
B. 230/XX and 115/XX Transformer Loss (T) 
The same process that was utilized in the load flow portion of the study was used to calculate 
losses for the 230/XX and 115/XX transformers. Estimated losses were computed by calculating 
the I²R losses through the transformer banks for the 144 time periods for both peak demand and 
average energy, using hourly cases for six different day types: Summer weekday & weekend, 
winter weekday & weekend and spring/fall weekday & weekend. The transformer loading was 
adjusted according to the load shape developed for use in the bulk transmission loss calculation. 
 

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 13 of 27
Existing computer files, used by the load forecast program, containing relevant substation 
transformer information, are updated annually by the ITS planners to obtain an accurate model. 
The base case update is accomplished in two steps. First, actual metered demands for each 
substation, at the time of the system peak hour, are loaded to the files. The second step involves 
the manual update of all transformer-related data, such as transformer rating, impedance and core 
loss. The “no load” transformer losses were approximated by counting the total number of banks 
and applying a generic approximation derived from a sample of test reports with typical results. 
This generic approximation value was determined to be 15.4 kW per transformer. 
The ITS Loss Study Working Group found that the value of loss attributable to 230/XX and 
115/XX transformers to be 0.4909% for demand loss and 0.5007% for energy loss. 
C. Station Service Transformer Loss (SS) 
This study views all station service energy (such as lighting, control house air conditioning, meters, 
clocks, heaters, pumps and fans) as loss and estimates an energy and demand loss component for 
station service. 
There are 3 types of station service transformers, based on the voltage levels: 
1. Station service transformers in 500/230 kV substations 
2. Station service transformers in 230/115 kV substations 
3. Station service transformers in 230/xx and 115/xx substations 
The load connected to these station service transformers was estimated based on the anticipated 
utilization throughout the year. Based on the analysis, the ITS Loss Study Working Group 
estimated the value of loss attributable to station service energy as 0.1182% for demand loss and 
0.1298% for energy loss. 
D. Sub-transmission Line Loss and XX/69 and XX/46 Transformer Loss (S) 
The same process that was utilized in the load flow portion of the study was used to calculate 
losses for the sub-transmission line loss and XX/69 and XX/46 transformers. Estimated subtransmission demand losses were captured by dispatching the 2008 peak case for the 144 time 
periods: Summer weekday & weekend, winter weekday & weekend and spring/fall weekday & 
weekend. The losses for the time periods were then annualized to estimate the energy losses. 
The values for the demand and energy losses on the sub-transmission system were updated using 
the 2024 sub-transmission case data, based on the process and information obtained from the 2008 
sub-transmission loss study done by the area planning departments. The loss values attributable to 
Sub-transmission Line Losses and XX/69 and XX/46 Transformer Losses are 0.1431% for demand 
loss and 0.1034% for energy loss. 
 

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 14 of 27
V. Other Components and Adjustments 
A. Capacitor and Reactor Loss 
Losses attributable to capacitors and reactors are those electrical losses resulting from the operation 
of shunt capacitors and shunt reactors. These devices are represented in the power flow simulation 
as ideal devices (no power consumption) supplying or consuming reactive power. Capacitors 
consume power in proportion to their reactive output, and their control circuitry also consumes 
power. Reactors are electrically like transformers, and in that respect, their power consumption is 
analogous to the transformer “No Load” losses. As in capacitors, the control circuitry of reactors 
also consumes power. 
Based on the nameplate data, losses in capacitors are estimated to be 0.15 W/kvar or 0.015%. 
Losses in reactors, based on the available data, are estimated at 2.5 W/kvar phase unit or 0.25%. 
In 2024, at peak, the capacitive reactive power was 5123.2 Mvar. The reactive power from shunt 
reactors was 408.1 Mvar. 
The ITS Loss Study Working Group calculated the loss values attributable to capacitors and 
reactors to be 0.0069% for demand loss and 0.0038% for energy loss. 
B. Catenary/Equivalencing Adjustment 
Losses due to catenary distances in load flow equivalencing consist of two components: 1) losses 
that occur as “I squared R” losses but are not included in the load flow due to the use of “sight” 
distances rather than actual wire distances, and 2) the equivalencing of short tap transmission lines 
(that is, representing a short tap as a junction on the main transmission line). 
In 1987, the Engineering Departments of both Georgia Power and Oglethorpe Power stated that 
the catenary distance (conductor length) is approximately 1.5% greater than the “sight” distance 
of a span of transmission line. An additional 0.5% represents the short tap transmission 
connections that are not represented in the load flow model. 
The ITS Loss Study Working Group estimates these losses as 2.0% of the bulk transmission and 
sub-transmission losses (demand and energy). This calculation results in a value of 0.0391% for 
demand loss and 0.0416% for energy loss. 
C. Contact Resistance Loss 
Losses attributable to contact resistances are those electrical losses associated with switches, 
connectors and terminations resulting in heat production at the contact point and in the device. 
Load current flowing through the device and the resistance of the device (contact resistance and 
the resistance and the resistance of the device itself) combine to product the “I squared R” heating 
effect. 
The Engineering Departments of both Georgia Power and Oglethorpe Power stated that contact 
resistances (switches, connectors and terminations) vary but are measured in micro-ohms ȍ. 

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 15 of 27
They are negligible in comparison to the transmission line resistances (which are represented 
within load flow). 
The ITS Loss Study Working Group agreed that these losses exist, but when compared to other 
system losses they are practically negligible. The group assigned a value to this component of 
0.0001% for both energy loss and demand loss. 
D. Corona Loss 
Corona is a phenomenon which exists on high-voltage transmission lines (conductors). Corona 
exists when the electric field intensity (voltage gradient) “exceeds the threshold” or ionizes the 
atmosphere surrounding the conductor. This field intensity is approximately 3000 kV/m. Corona 
losses depend mostly on the voltage level of the conductor but are also influenced by the presence 
of water vapor, air pressure, conductor material and incident photoionization. The ionization of 
the air generates heat, light, audible noise and radio interference. These examples are all forms of 
energy release that must be supplied by the transmission system. 
Corona loss is weather dependent and is larger during inclement weather. Since peak conditions 
on the ITS usually occur during optimal weather conditions, it is expected that demand corona loss 
will be less than energy corona loss. Using the research performed in 1987 by the ITS Loss Study 
Working Group and 2024 ITS transmission system miles data, the electrical losses attributable to 
corona are 0.0202% demand loss and 0.0931% energy loss. The impact of corona energy loss is 
because all weather components are factored into the result, and corona energy loss does not relate 
on a percentage basis because it is independent of line loading. 
E. Deviation from Base Case Interchange Schedules Loss 
Electrical losses attributable to the deviation from base case interchange schedules are a result of 
the difference between the load flow base case system interchange and the actual system 
interchange. The abundance of short-term economic transactions and deviations from contractual 
off-system sales is impractical to account for in the modeling for energy consumption. Thus, a 
correction for the mismatch between base case interchange and actual system interchange may be 
needed. If the actual system interchange is less than the base case schedule, the adjustment will 
be negative. 
The base case interchange schedule accurately reflects the actual system conditions during peak 
load levels. As a result, no adjustment is necessary for demand losses or energy losses. 
F. Deviation in Inadvertent Interchange (Loop Flow) Loss 
Economic sales and purchases of electrical energy occur on an hourly basis between 
interconnected electrical systems. The decision to purchase or to sell energy for one hour is based 
on the economics of the available fuel mix and transmission costs (wheeling charges). When 
transactions are made between electrical energy suppliers, a dedicated transmission path is usually 
designated to carry energy from one party to the other. However, power flows over the 

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 16 of 27
transmission path of least impedance. Thus, some energy transactions affect the transmission 
systems of third parties without any wheeling charges being levied. The Integrated Transmission 
System, with its abundance of 500 kV transmission facilities, has in the past been the third party 
to some of these transactions. 
By assigning electrical losses attributable to deviations in inadvertent interchange, an attempt is 
made to capture losses for loop flows (Energy which flows completely through a transmission 
system) which occur on the ITS. Based on the work done by the 1987 ITS Loss Study Working 
Group, the new loss value is 0.0297% for demand and 0.0539% for energy. 
G. E/M Fields Loss 
Electrical losses attributable to E/M (Electromagnetic) fields from conductors are those losses 
which result from the magnetic coupling of the phase conductors to their surroundings. This 
magnetic coupling has the same fundamental coupling effect for electrical transformers. Thus, 
this loss is analogous to the “No Load” losses for a transformer. 
For the demand loss component, the ITS Loss Study Working Group estimates the losses to be 
0.3% of the bulk transmission losses resulting in a demand loss value of 0.0054%. For the energy 
loss component, the Working Group estimates the loss factor to be 0.008% divided by the Load 
Factor resulting in a value of 0.0137% for energy loss. 
H. Harmonic Distortion Loss 
Harmonic Content is the distortion of sinusoidal waveforms characterized by indication of the 
magnitude and order of Fourier series terms describing the wave. The harmonic content of the 
electric field coincides with that of the line voltage, and the harmonic content of the magnetic field 
coincides with that of the line current for single-phase systems. For transmission lines, the 
harmonic content is small, except during transient conditions, and of little concern for the purpose 
of field measurements except at points near large industrial loads such as saturated power 
transformers, n-pulse rectifiers, or aluminum and chlorine plants. 
For this study, we had no data that was measured anywhere on the system. The ITS Loss Group 
agreed to assume that the current harmonics on the system are not larger than limits outlined in 
IEEE 519-1992 application guide for harmonics. Based on that data, estimated current system 
harmonics on the ITS are around 2.47%. As the amount of non-linear load grows on the system, 
the quantity of harmonics is expected to increase. The working group calculated the value of loss 
attributable to harmonic distortion to be 0.0015% for demand loss and 0.0016% for energy loss. 
I. Insulator Leakage Loss 
Losses due to insulator leakage are those electrical losses which result from a current flowing from 
the electrical conductor (bus bar or switch) to the ground. This current is caused by the potential 
difference between the conductor and ground and the internal resistance of the insulator (or 
insulating device). The electrical loss results from heating of the insulator. This heating is 
represented by the square of the current times the resistance or “I squared R”. The leakage current 

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 17 of 27
is a function of the conductor voltage and the insulator resistance (not a function of the load 
current). The resistivity of the insulator may be affected by contamination, moisture and/or 
insulator damage (lightning and gunshot damage). 
The ITS Loss Study Working Group calculated the value of losses due to insulator leakage to be 
0.0188% demand loss and 0.0335% energy loss. 
J. Line Out Operation Adjustment 
Periodically, transmission lines are removed from service for maintenance and for emergency 
conditions. Less transmission lines in-service results in additional loading on the remaining lines 
in-service, thus incrementally increasing the resistive power losses (I2R) on the system. 
Additional real power losses which occur because of this increased loading are attributable to line 
out operation. 
An analysis was performed utilizing the base case model to determine the effect of line out 
operation on transmission system losses. The ITS Loss Study Working Group determined the 
value of losses attributable to line out operation to be 0.0059% for demand loss and 0.0063% for 
energy loss. 
K. Overhead Ground Wire (OHGW) Loss 
Losses due to induced current in the OHGW loop are those electrical losses which result from the 
magnetic coupling of the overhead ground wire and the three electrical phases. This coupling 
produces a voltage and current induced in the OHGW loop. This magnetic coupling has the same 
fundamental coupling effect for electrical transformers. Thus, this loss is analogous to the “No 
Load” losses for a transformer. The remainder of the loss occurs due to the resistive power loss 
(I2
R) from the induced current flowing in the OHGW loop. A 1987 EMTP study conducted by 
Mr. R. A. (Bobby) Jones of Southern Company Services investigating the benefits of segmenting 
the OHGW was utilized in preparing an estimate of OHGW loss. 
The ITS Loss Study Working Group estimates these losses as 1.4% of the bulk transmission and 
sub-transmission losses (demand and energy). This calculation results in a value of 0.0274% for 
demand loss and 0.0291% for energy loss. 
L. Power Factor Adjustment 
Electrical losses attributable to reactive loads are those real power losses resulting from an increase 
in the magnitude of current by the reactive component of the load. The reactive component of the 
load current has an impact on the magnitude of the load current and therefore the losses associated 
with that current. 
Based on the 2024 base case model, the ITS power factor is calculated to be 0.9695. Based on the 
real time data, during the peak, the power factor was calculated to be 0.9874 (slightly worse than 
the value represented in the model). The Power Factor Adjustment calculated by the ITS Loss 
Study Working Group are 0.0032% for demand loss and 0.0030% for energy loss. 

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 18 of 27
M. Temperature Compensation of Test Resistances Loss 
Real power losses which occur on transmission line conductors are a function of conductor 
resistance. In turn, conductor resistance is dependent on conductor temperature (as the temperature 
of the conductor increases, so does the conductor resistance). When the power system is simulated 
with the load flow program, conductor resistance is not properly modeled, for varying temperatures 
and conductor loading. Temperature compensation of test resistances can result in an upward or 
a downward change in system losses, depending on system conditions. 
The research performed by the ITS Loss Study Working Group shows that electrical losses 
attributable to temperature compensation of test resistances are negligible. The working group 
assigned 0.0000% demand loss and 0.0000% energy loss to be attributable to temperature 
compensation of test resistances. 
N. Unbalanced System Operation Loss 
Unbalanced system operation losses are those electrical losses which result from operation of the 
power system with phase currents and voltages that are not equal in magnitude and not exactly 120 
electrical degrees apart. System unbalance results from unbalanced loads and transmission lines 
that have slightly different impedance characteristics in each phase due to either a non-equidistant 
phase spacing or not utilizing phase transposition. System unbalance also results from mutual 
coupling between parallel lines. 
In 1987, an EMTP study set up by Mr. Hamish Wong of Southern Company Services and 
conducted by Mr. R. A. (Bobby) Jones also of Southern Company Services provided the working 
group with enough information to make an estimate of the loss due to unbalanced system operation. 
The ITS Loss Study group estimates the loss due to unbalances as: 
x 1.0% of the sum of the bulk transmission, the 230/XX and 115/XX kV transformers and the 
subtransmission losses for the demand component of loss. This calculation results in a 
value of 0.0244% for demand loss, and 
x 1.75% of the sum of bulk transmission, the 230/XX and 115/XX kV transformers and the 
subtransmission losses for the energy component of loss. This calculation results in a value 
of 0.0452% for energy loss. 
O. Unmetered Auxiliary Equipment 
Losses defined as the energy used by unmetered auxiliary equipment is the energy used by 
regulators, current transformers, potential transformers, relays, etc. that is not metered. This 
energy is the energy required for the device to work (both “I squared R” and “No Load” losses). 

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 19 of 27
Based upon a review of typical potential transformer burdens realized in the GPC system, the ITS 
Loss Study Working Group estimates a constant loss of 700 kVA for the entire system. The real 
portion of 700 kVA divided by the peak load (700 kVA * power factor) results in a value of 
0.0026% for demand loss and 0.0046% for energy loss. 

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 20 of 27
APPENDIX 
Table 1. Unit-out Probabilities (Peak) 
Rank Units Outaged Number of 
Units Out 
Probability 
(Rounded) 
Sum of 
Probabilities 
1 No Outages 0 38.19% 38.19% 
2 1-Bowen 1 17.84% 56.02% 
3 1-Scherer 1 6.36% 62.38% 
4 1-McDonough CC 1 4.33% 66.71% 
5 1-Franklin CC 1 4.33% 71.04% 
6 1-Farley 1 2.94% 73.99% 
7 1-Hatch 1 2.94% 76.93% 
8 1-McIntosh CC 1 2.94% 79.87% 
9 1-Bowen 1-Scherer 2 1.51% 81.39% 
10 1-Vogtle 1 5.66% 87.04% 
11 1-Bowen 1-Farley 2 0.70% 87.74% 
12 1-Bowen 1-Hatch 2 0.70% 88.44% 
13 1-Bowen 1-Vogtle 2 1.34% 89.78% 
14 1-Hatch 1-Franklin 2 0.17% 89.95% 
15 1-Bowen 1-Franklin 2 1.03% 90.98% 
16 1-Scherer 1-Hatch 2 0.25% 91.23% 
17 1-Scherer 1-Franklin 2 0.37% 91.60% 
18 1-Hatch 1-McDonough 2 0.17% 91.77% 
19 1-Bowen 1-McDonough 2 1.03% 92.79% 
20 1-Franklin 1-McDonough 2 0.25% 93.04% 
21 1-Hatch 1-Farley 2 0.12% 93.16% 
22 1-Scherer 1-McDonough 2 0.37% 93.52% 
23 1-Farley 1-Franklin 2 0.17% 93.69% 
24 1-Hatch 1-Vogtle 2 0.22% 93.92% 
25 1-Vogtle 1-Franklin 2 0.33% 94.24% 
26 1-Scherer 1-Farley 2 0.25% 94.49% 
27 1-Scherer 1-Vogtle 2 0.48% 94.97% 
28 1-Farley 1-McDonough 2 0.17% 95.14% 
29 1-Vogtle 1-McDonough 2 0.33% 95.47% 
30 1-Hatch 1-McIntosh 2 0.12% 95.58% 
31 2-Bowen 2 2.17% 97.75% 
32 1-Bowen 1-McIntosh 2 0.70% 98.45% 
33 1-Franklin 1-McIntosh 2 0.17% 98.62% 
34 1-Vogtle 1-Farley 2 0.22% 98.84% 
35 1-Scherer 1-McIntosh 2 0.25% 99.09% 
36 1-McIntosh 1-McDonough 2 0.17% 99.26% 
37 2-Hatch 2 0.03% 99.29% 

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 21 of 27
Rank Units Outaged Number of 
Units Out 
Probability 
(Rounded) 
Sum of 
Probabilities 
38 2-Scherer 2 0.20% 99.49% 
39 2-Franklin 2 0.09% 99.57% 
40 1-Farley 1-McIntosh 2 0.12% 99.69% 
41 1-Vogtle 1-McIntosh 2 0.22% 99.91% 
42 2-McDonough 2 0.09% 100.00% 

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 22 of 27
Table 2. Unit-out Probabilities (Off-Peak) 
Rank Units Outaged Number of 
Units Out 
Probability 
(Rounded) 
Sum of 
Probabilities 
1 No Outages 0 29.46% 29.46%
2 1-Bowen 1 18.31% 47.77%
3 1-Scherer 1 7.46% 55.23%
4 1-McDonough CC 1 5.71% 60.94%
5 1-Franklin CC 1 5.71% 66.66%
6 1-McIntosh CC 1 3.93% 70.58%
7 1-Hatch 1 2.65% 73.23%
8 1-Farley 1 2.65% 75.88%
9 1-Bowen 1-Scherer 2 2.02% 77.90%
10 1-Bowen 1-McDonough CC 2 1.55% 79.45%
11 1-Bowen 1-Franklin CC 2 1.55% 81.00%
12 1-Vogtle 1 5.08% 86.08%
13 1-Scherer 1-McDonough CC 2 0.63% 86.71%
14 1-Scherer 1-Franklin CC 2 0.63% 87.35%
15 1-Bowen 1-McIntosh CC 2 1.07% 88.41%
16 1-Scherer 1-McIntosh CC 2 0.43% 88.84%
17 1-Bowen 1-Hatch 2 0.72% 89.56%
18 1-Bowen 1-Farley 2 0.72% 90.28%
19 1-Scherer 1-Hatch 2 0.29% 90.57%
20 1-Scherer 1-Farley 2 0.29% 90.87%
21 1-Bowen 1-Vogtle 2 1.38% 92.24%
22 1-Scherer 1-Vogtle 2 0.56% 92.81%
23 1-Hatch 1-Franklin 2 0.22% 93.03%
24 1-Franklin 1-McDonough 2 0.48% 93.51%
25 1-Hatch 1-Farley 2 0.10% 93.62%
26 1-Farley 1-Franklin 2 0.22% 93.84%
27 1-Hatch 1-Vogtle 2 0.20% 94.04%
28 1-Vogtle 1-Franklin 2 0.43% 94.47%
29 1-Farley 1-McDonough 2 0.22% 94.69%
30 1-Vogtle 1-McDonough 2 0.43% 95.12%
31 1-Hatch 1-McIntosh 2 0.15% 95.28%
32 2-Bowen 2 2.72% 97.99%
33 1-Franklin 1-McIntosh 2 0.33% 98.33%
34 1-Vogtle 1-Farley 2 0.20% 98.53%
35 1-McIntosh 1-McDonough 2 0.33% 98.86%
36 2-Hatch 2 0.03% 98.89%
37 2-Scherer 2 0.31% 99.20%
38 2-Franklin 2 0.18% 99.37%
39 1-Farley 1-McIntosh 2 0.15% 99.53%

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 23 of 27
Rank Units Outaged Number of 
Units Out 
Probability 
(Rounded) 
Sum of 
Probabilities 
40 1-Vogtle 1-McIntosh 2 0.30% 99.82%
41 2-McDonough 2 0.18% 100.00%

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 24 of 27
Table 3. Hydro Schedule Used For 2024 Energy Cases
Hour
Summer 
Weekday
Summer 
Weekend 
Winter 
Weekday
Winter 
Weekend 
Spring/Fall 
Weekday
Spring/Fall 
Weekend 
0100 Motoring/ 
Pumping 
Motoring/ 
Pumping Motoring Motoring Motoring/ 
Pumping 
Motoring 
/Pumping 
0200 Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
0300 Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
0400 Motoring/ 
Pumping 
Motoring/ 
Pumping 
Motoring/ 
Pumping 
Motoring/ 
Pumping 
Motoring/ 
Pumping 
Motoring/ 
Pumping 
0500 Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
0600 Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Winter 
Low Water Motoring Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
0700 Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Winter 
Normal Motoring Summer 
Low Water 
Motoring/ 
Pumping
0800 Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Winter 
Normal 
Winter 
Low Water 
Summer 
Low Water 
Summer 
Low Water 
0900 Motoring/ 
Pumping Motoring Winter 
Normal 
Winter 
Low Water 
Summer 
Low Water 
Summer 
Low Water 
1000 Summer 
Low Water Motoring Winter 
Normal 
Winter 
Normal 
Summer 
Low Water 
Summer 
Low Water 
1100 Summer 
Low Water Motoring Winter 
Normal 
Winter 
Low Water 
Summer 
Low Water 
Motoring/ 
Pumping 
1200 Summer 
Normal 
Summer 
Normal 
Winter 
Normal 
Winter 
Low Water 
Summer 
Low Water 
Motoring/ 
Pumping
1300 Summer 
Normal 
Summer 
Low Water 
Winter 
Normal 
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Summer 
Low Water 
Motoring/ 
Pumping
1400 Summer 
Normal 
Summer 
Normal 
Winter 
Low Water 
Motoring/ 
Pumping 
Summer 
Low Water 
Motoring/ 
Pumping 
1500 Summer 
Normal 
Summer 
Normal 
Winter 
Low Water 
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Summer 
Low Water 
Motoring/ 
Pumping
1600 Summer 
Normal 
Summer 
Normal 
Winter 
Low Water Motoring Summer 
Normal 
Motoring/ 
Pumping
1700 Summer 
Normal 
Summer 
Normal 
Winter 
Normal 
Winter 
Low Water 
Summer 
Normal 
Summer 
Normal 
1800 Summer 
Normal 
Summer 
Normal 
Winter 
Normal 
Winter 
Normal 
Summer 
Normal 
Summer 
Normal 
1900 Summer 
Normal 
Summer 
Low Water 
Winter 
Normal 
Winter 
Normal 
Summer 
Low Water 
Summer 
Low Water 
2000 Summer 
Low Water 
Summer 
Low Water 
Winter 
Normal Motoring Summer 
Low Water 
Summer 
Low Water 
2100 Summer 
Low Water 
Summer 
Low Water 
Winter 
Low Water 
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring 
/Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
2200 Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
2300 Motoring/ 
Pumping 
Motoring/ 
Pumping 
Motoring/ 
Pumping 
Motoring/ 
Pumping 
Motoring 
/Pumping 
Motoring/ 
Pumping 
2400 Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping
Motoring/ 
Pumping

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 25 of 27
Table 4. Load Shapes Used For 2024 Energy Cases 
(Fractions of peak Demand)
Hour
Ending
SWD SWE WWD WWE FWD FWE
100 0.5962 0.5779 0.6016 0.6124 0.4977 0.4874
200 0.5796 0.5576 0.6080 0.6130 0.4943 0.4810
300 0.5769 0.5459 0.6258 0.6201 0.5033 0.4815
400 0.5948 0.5443 0.6616 0.6354 0.5323 0.4901
500 0.6300 0.5481 0.7167 0.6580 0.5816 0.5056
600 0.6468 0.5510 0.7492 0.6828 0.6061 0.5199
700 0.6443 0.5562 0.7272 0.6827 0.5901 0.5178
800 0.6581 0.5794 0.6847 0.6583 0.5683 0.5072
900 0.6926 0.6203 0.6558 0.6357 0.5607 0.5039
1000 0.7323 0.6667 0.6324 0.6136 0.5594 0.5033
1100 0.7727 0.7143 0.6128 0.5946 0.5630 0.5064
1200 0.8105 0.7543 0.5986 0.5781 0.5714 0.5116
1300 0.8384 0.7867 0.5888 0.5678 0.5796 0.5196
1400 0.8596 0.8136 0.5914 0.5706 0.5907 0.5322
1500 0.8748 0.8355 0.6186 0.5978 0.6083 0.5537
1600 0.8810 0.8496 0.6697 0.6496 0.6299 0.5832
1700 0.8806 0.8552 0.7096 0.6905 0.6519 0.6097
1800 0.8809 0.8510 0.7189 0.6994 0.6683 0.6284
1900 0.8667 0.8315 0.7134 0.6957 0.6688 0.6301
2000 0.8326 0.7982 0.6964 0.6824 0.6486 0.6125
2100 0.7764 0.7471 0.6685 0.6607 0.6107 0.5807
2200 0.7194 0.6946 0.6408 0.6379 0.5702 0.5465
2300 0.6662 0.6508 0.6205 0.6189 0.5342 0.5262
2400 0.6245 0.6078 0.6056 0.6177 0.5102 0.5014
Average Hourly Percentages of ITS Peak Load for Each Daytype
(defined as June1 - Sept 30)
Summer
(defined as Dec 1 - Feb 29)
Winter
(defined as Mar 1 - May 30 and Oct 1 - Nov 30)
Fall/Spring

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 26 of 27
Table 5. Weighting For 2024 Energy Bulk Loss Calculations
Daily Annual Daily Annual
Days/Year MWH MWH MWH MWH
Represented Losses Losses Load Load
By Each By Each By Each By Each By Each
Daytype Daytype Daytype Daytype Daytype
Summer Week Day 86 9,171.63 789,142 487,261 41,924,715
Summer Week End 36 8,762.94 315,101 455,317 16,372,447
Winter Week Day 66 6,460.15 426,370 398,399 26,294,314
Winter Week End 25 6,019.28 150,482 381,634 9,540,838
Fall/Spring Weekday 110 7,883.95 866,906 377,257 41,482,498
Fall/Spring Weekend 43 7,692.83 331,112 358,565 15,433,247
Total 366 2,879,113
167,092 Total Annual Energy 500/230/115 kV Transformer No-Load Losses (MWh)
Total Annual Energy Losses 3,046,205
Total Annual Load 151,048,060
Energy Loss Factor (B) 1.9768% LF = Loss/(Load + Loss)

			
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2024 ITS Loss Study Report Page 27 of 27
ITS JOINT SUBCOMMITTEE FOR TRANSMISSION PLANNING 
2024 ITS LOSS STUDY 
APPROVAL PAGE 
 
Will McDaniel – Dalton Utilities / Date Jeremy Talley – Dalton Utilities / Date 
 
Thomas Leslie – GTC / Date Justin Denard – GTC / Date 
 
Chase Battaglio – SCS / Date Chris Weaver – GPC / Date 
 
Aref Moradkhani – MEAG Power / Date Gary McAdam – MEAG Power / Date 

			
 

 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

[E]
INTERFACE AND
INTERCONNECTIONS

[E1]
REGIONAL TRANSMISSION 
PLANNING

SERTP
Southern Company participates in the Southeastern Regional Transmission Planning (SERTP) 
process, which is a coordinated, open and transparent process that allows for stakeholder (e.g. 
any interested party) feedback regarding the current ten-year transmission expansion plan. In the 
SERTP process, stakeholders have the opportunity to propose alternatives to projects in the latest 
transmission expansion plan for Southern Company to consider. The SERTP has expanded 
several times, both in the scope and in the size of the region, since its initial voluntary formation 
and now includes the following Sponsors: Southern Company, Dalton Utilities, Georgia 
Transmission Corporation, the Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia, PowerSouth, Louisville 
Gas & Electric Company and Kentucky Utilities Company, Associated Electric Cooperative Inc., 
the Tennessee Valley Authority, and Duke Energy (Duke Energy Carolinas, LLCs and Duke 
Energy Progress, Inc.). The SERTP process did not produce any stakeholder-proposed 
alternatives that were included in the ITS Ten-Year Transmission Expansion Plan (2025-2034).
Additional information on the SERTP process is available on the SERTP website at 
http://www.southeasternrtp.com/. The timeline below shows where the SERTP Stakeholder 
meetings fall during the annual planning process.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

Also of note, the SERTP began implementing the additional requirements of FERC Order No.
1000 on “Transmission Planning and Cost Allocation by Transmission Owning and Operating 
Public Utilities”, on June 1, 2014, including:
• Participation in a regional planning process, including the development of a single, regional 
transmission plan
• Consideration of transmission needs driven by public policy requirements established by 
state, federal, or local laws or regulations, including stakeholder input regarding these types 
of transmission needs
• Development of qualification criteria for non-incumbent transmission developers to propose 
transmission projects for the purposes of regional cost allocation
• Development of a regional cost allocation methodology to allocate costs of those regional 
facilities selected in a regional plan for purposes of cost allocation
• Development of a common interregional cost allocation methodology to allocate costs of those 
interregional facilities selected in two neighboring regional plans for purposes of cost 
allocation
No transmission project proposals were submitted during the 2023 SERTP process for potential 
inclusion in the regional transmission plan for purposes of cost allocation.
EIPC
Southern Company, along with several other transmission Planning Authorities across the 
Eastern Interconnect, participate in the Eastern Interconnect Planning Collaborative (“EIPC”). The 
EIPC is a coordinated, open, and transparent process that models the impact of various policy 
options determined to be of interest by state, provincial, and federal policy makers, and other 
stakeholders. Analysis performed in the EIPC is used to “inform” transmission Planning 
Authorities responsible for the analysis/development of the respective transmission expansion 
plan. The EIPC did not produce any projects proposed in the ITS Ten-Year Transmission 
Expansion Plan (2024-2033). Additional information on the EIPC is available on the EIPC website 
at http://www.eipconline.com.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

[E2]
TRANSMISSION SERVICE REQUEST 
SUMMARY

1
The table below lists key transmission service requests (TSRs) confirmed from 1/1/2021
through 12/13/2024 within the Georgia Integrated Transmission System. 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

2
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

3
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

4
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

5
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

6
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

7
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

8
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

9
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

10
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

11
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

12
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

13
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

14
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

15
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

16
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

17
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

18
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

19
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

20
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

21
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

22
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

23
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

24
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

25
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

26
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

27
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

28
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

29
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

30
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

31
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

32
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

33
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

34
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

35
Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
36

Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
37

Point 
of 
Receipt
Point of 
Delivery Assign Ref Transmission Provider
Queued 
Time Customer Source Transmission Service Type Status
Capacity 
Requested 
(MW)
Start Time Stop Time
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
38

[E3]
SOUTHERN COMPANY ELECTRIC 
SYSTEM INTERFACE ANALYSIS
 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
1
Introduction
Electric power transfers can have a significant effect on the reliability of the electric 
power system for a balancing authority and must be evaluated in the context of the entire 
interconnected system. The physics of interconnected transmission systems dictates
the flow patterns involved in a bulk power transfer. Therefore, significant parallel flows 
(also known as “loop flows”) across many balancing authorities beyond those 
specifically involved in the transaction are commonplace. Evaluations performed in a 
joint and/or coordinated manner are essential for maintaining the capability and reliability 
of the system for the benefit of all users. The scope of these joint and/or coordinated 
evaluations is to assess the transfer capabilities between the Southern Balancing 
Authority Area (SBAA) and its neighboring balancing authority areas. From a SBAA
reliability standpoint, the import capabilities are a consideration in providing a reliable
and cost-effective system for the customers of the Southern Companies’ operating 
companies, which includes Georgia Power Company (GPC).
On behalf of GPC and the other operating companies of the Southern Companies, SCS 
Transmission Planning conducts various joint coordinated evaluations with neighboring 
systems and internal screens intended to assess transfer capabilities with neighboring 
balancing authorities over a 10-year period. These evaluations are performed annually.
The following sections describe the methods by which this is accomplished through the 
10-year planning horizon and summarize the results from the most recent evaluation.
Terminology
In the evaluation of transfer capability, there are many terms and acronyms. In addition, 
there are many regional organizations and individual companies that influence the 
practices and methodologies used in interface analysis. Section H4 in the Appendix
provides technical definitions of the terminology and acronyms used in this section.

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
2
Open Access Same-time Information System (OASIS)
As part of Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) Order 889, all FERC 
jurisdictional utilities are required to maintain and post on an OASIS site the transfer 
capabilities of its balancing authority’s interfaces. For the Southern Companies, this is 
done on a rolling thirteen (13) month basis (operations planning). All reservations for 
transmission service must be made through interaction with the OASIS sites of the 
SBAA (Southern Companies, Georgia Transmission Corporation (GTC), or the 
Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia (MEAG)). Information relating to firm service that 
has been granted or reserved can be obtained through access to the various OASIS 
sites. For information on the OASIS of Southern Companies, please visit the OASIS 
website at www.oasis.oati.com/SOCO. This document contains OASIS data as of 
December 2024.
Southern Balancing Authority Area Transfer Capability
The ability to import power from external sources is one of the many factors considered 
in developing a reliable and cost-effective plan for the SBAA, including GPC.
It should be emphasized that the base case used to calculate these transfer capabilities 
represents snapshots of the system. There are great multitudes of transactions between 
balancing authorities that can and do occur, and it would be impossible to predict the 
actual transfer capability for any given future point in time. Therefore, as previously 
mentioned, the calculation and posting of transfer capabilities is only performed in the 
operations planning horizon (rolling 13 months). Furthermore, actual power flows 
resulting from energy transactions do not necessarily follow their scheduled contract 
paths, and the resulting parallel flows can greatly influence the transfer capability on an 
interface to which the scheduling parties are not even directly connected. Although the 
actual real – time transfer capability can be very difficult to predict, this coordinated 
practice of interface analysis has allowed the electric system to take advantage of 
economically beneficial, and emergency, bulk power transfers to provide a reliable and 
cost-effective system for the retail customers in the SBAA, including GPC. For more 
information on the Available Transfer Capability (ATC) calculation methodology utilized 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
3
in the operations planning horizon, please visit the ATC Implementation Document (ID) 
on the OASIS website at:
SOCO_ATCID_v1.7_Effective-2024-07-22.pdf (oati.com) .
Methodology for Evaluating Transfer Capability in the Planning Horizon
Transmission transfer capabilities for the SBAA are evaluated in accordance with North 
American Electric Reliability Council (NERC) planning and transfer capability guidelines 
and are designed to meet all firm obligations, including Transmission Service 
Agreements (TSA), Capacity Benefit Margin (CBM), Transmission Reliability Margin 
(TRM), and Native Load Reservations (NLR).
The evaluation of transfer capability begins with power flow base cases, each one 
representing a snapshot of the future. These cases are developed in coordination with 
many regional and balancing authorities’ representatives. For example, the annual 
SERC Reliability Corporation Long - Term Working Group (LTWG) databank update and 
NERC Multi – regional Modeling Working Group (MMWG) are data sources for external 
system representations used to develop the power flow base cases for the SBAA
evaluations. These power flow base cases include the modeling of power transfers that 
represent existing contractual obligations between balancing authorities that are 
expected when the database update occurs. Immediately prior to major joint interface 
evaluations such as the LTWG or Florida Interface studies, the SBAA and outside areas 
of the models are updated by the participating utilities. For internally performed (non –
joint) evaluations, the SBAA portion of the base cases is updated with the latest 
information regarding modeling assumptions.
For the “northern” interfaces of Midcontinent Independent System Operator (MISO), 
Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA), Duke Energy Carolinas (DEC), South Carolina 
Public Service Authority (SCPSA) and Dominion Energy South Carolina (DESC), 
importing power on one interface may mutually impact the ability to import power on the 
other interfaces. Therefore, transfer capability for the SBAA is evaluated to ensure not 
only that there is sufficient import capability across each interface to accommodate all 
firm transactions across that particular interface, but also that there is sufficient import 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
4
capability across all of the interfaces to accommodate all firm obligations 
simultaneously. The Florida interface is fundamentally radial from the SBAA and would 
not have significant impact on the “northern” interfaces. The Florida interface is jointly 
evaluated with the Florida utilities, except for Florida Power and Light Northwest Florida 
(“FPL-NW”) which is calculated individually and will be discussed separately from the 
“northern” interfaces.
There are many transactions modeled in the base cases between various companies.
Before any transfer evaluation begins, a list of firm transactions involving the SBAA for 
the relevant periods is obtained from the OASIS and applicable transactions are added 
to the cases as base transfers.
In general, linear, DC analysis with AC verification is used to perform transfer capability 
analysis on all interfaces.
Ten Year Interface Capability Plan for SBAA
Adequate transfer capability of the SBAA should be maintained to:
1. Support contractual sales and/or purchases
2. Ensure reliable operation of the system
Because the transmission providers within the SBAA have an obligation to provide firm 
transmission service to all transactions that are granted “firm” service, transfer capability 
on the interfaces should be maintained to meet these obligations for importing power as 
listed on the OASIS for SBAA members. This is significant in fulfilling the obligations 
listed in item 1 above.
Per its Order 888, FERC allows balancing authorities to reserve capacity on the 
interfaces to ensure that the interconnected transmission network is secure under a 
reasonable range of uncertainties in system conditions. This reservation is called
Transmission Reliability Margin. For the SBAA, this import transfer capability value is
established at 900 MW which is then divided between the TVA (315 MW), Duke 
(312MW), MISO (216 MW), and Florida (58 MW) interfaces. For more information on 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
5
the TRM methodology, please visit the TRM Implementation Document (ID) on the 
OASIS website at:
https://www.oasis.oati.com/woa/docs/SOCO/SOCOdocs/SCS_TRMID_v1.6_Effective_
02-09-2024.pdf
Additionally, FERC allows native load and network customers to reserve import interface 
capability for future load growth purposes. Southern Companies, on behalf of the 
Operating Companies (which includes GPC), may maintain native load transmission 
reservations across external interfaces with neighboring utilities in order to facilitate the 
Company in procuring off system reliability capacity and energy which is needed 
because there is some uncertainty in the projection of native load generation capacity 
requirements. This uncertainty is the result of economic conditions, weather, load 
forecast uncertainty and unanticipated (long term) generation unit failure or retirements. 
The amount of interface native load reservation capacity is influenced significantly by 
the present and projected markets for power supply, both inside the SBAA and outside 
the SBAA.
Per its order 888, FERC also allows native load customers to reserve import interface 
capability to ensure access to adequate capacity resources outside of the SBAA to 
maintain system reliability and to reduce the amount of generation reserves required.
This reservation of interface capacity is termed Capacity Benefit Margin (CBM). Studies 
are performed periodically to determine the amount of generation capacity reserves and 
emergency interface capacity (CBM) required to maintain system reliability in a costeffective manner for the customers of the Operating Companies, including GPC. The 
most recent approved study indicates that 900 MW of CBM will maintain the appropriate 
reserve margin level. The ability to obtain and import power for CBM is a function both 
of the transmission system and the availability of power on the other side of the 
interfaces under consideration. Because there is a distinct probability that all 900 MW 
may not be available from a single neighboring balancing authority, CBM is reserved 
across several neighboring balancing authorities. The balancing authorities selected for
CBM reservations are those anticipated to have available excess resources and transfer 
capability at the time when CBM is most likely to be utilized. For more information on 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
6
the CBM methodology, please visit the CBM Implementation Document (ID) on the 
OASIS website at:
https://www.oasis.oati.com/SOCO/SOCOdocs/SOCO_CBMID.pdf. 
Import Capability
The methodology for calculating import capability on the “northern” interfaces which 
consists of MISO, TVA, DEC, DESC and SCPSA has been described in some detail in 
earlier parts of this document. The evaluation performed to develop the 10-year
projection of adequate import capability on these interfaces to meet existing firm 
commitments utilizes the most recent internal base cases available at the time of the 
study. The cases are modified to remove all export transactions that may mask problems 
that can occur if the export transactions are not scheduled during the time when 
significant imports into the system are needed. This impact is typically called “netting”.
For the import evaluation, the cases were further modified to import all TSAs, and CBM 
for the applicable interfaces. Reliability margins (CBM and TRM) are not included in the 
cases but are considered during the analysis when determining the import capability. 
The import capability from Florida is evaluated jointly with the Florida utilities, with FPLNW being calculated individually, and is discussed in the “Florida” section below.
Northern Interfaces
Import capability across all the interfaces with the SBAA is sufficient to accommodate 
all firm transactions and reliability margin reservations including TSAs, NLR, TRM and 
CBM for all years of the planning horizon.
Florida Interface
Import capability from the Florida Reliability Coordinating Council (FRCC), including 
FPL-NW, to SBAA is sufficient to accommodate all firm transactions and reliability 
margin reservations including TSAs, TRM and CBM for all years.

[E4]
OPTIMAL TRANSMISSION SITES FOR 
GENERATION IN GEORGIA

OPTIMAL TRANSMISSION SITING FOR GENERATION STUDY
Given that Georgia Power Company exists in a regulated market where the elimination of 
transmission constraints is a primary focus of transmission planning processes and the net 
demand (location and magnitude of generation sources and forecasted load) is a key input to the 
determination of such transmission constraints, the optimal Transmission Siting for Generation 
Study is performed to identify locations where interconnected generation would not exacerbate 
transmission constraints. 
The Optimal Transmission Siting for Generation Study follows a methodology that identifies 
potential substation sites that are more suitable in size for renewable projects, specifically solar. 
Given current solar activity in the state, this methodology provides improved value, and the 
resulting study is included in the filing.
To determine these optimal transmission sites for generation interconnection locations, the 
Optimal Transmission Siting for Generation study uses the following methodology:
• A load flow model is created for the year 2029 with generation injected into a single 
Georgia Power owned substation bus.
• Next, transmission line contingency analysis (i.e., N-1 and N-G-1 analysis) is performed 
to determine the generation limit of the substation.
• The previous two steps are repeated for each substation.
• Substations must be able to accommodate a generation injection of 300 MWs minimum 
to be considered a viable optimal transmission site for generation interconnection.
• The list is further limited to breakered substations for ease of generator interconnection.
• A cursory review of land availability was done to identify sites located in highly populated 
areas with no possibility of expansion of the transmission system.
Each year there are new generation, load, and transmission assumptions that will change how 
power will flow on the transmission system and could impact the resulting optimal sites.
Using the methodology described above, the optimal transmission siting for generation locations 
is at the substations listed below:
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

Optimal Georgia Power Transmission Substations for Generation Interconnections
 
Banks Crossing Line Creek
Clermont Junction Northwest
Cornish Mountain Porterdale Primary
Cumming Rockville
Dyer Road South Hall
Glaze Drive Winder Primary
Gravelly Creek Yates
Jack McDonough
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

[F]
GPC DISTRIBUTION SUBSTATION 
PROJECTS & FORECAST
(FIVE-YEAR LOADING PLAN)

DISTRIBUTION SUBSTATION FORECAST
(FIVE-YEAR LOADING PLAN)
The following items outline the distribution expansion plans for Georgia Power:
 Ten Year Substation Load Forecast (on file in GPC Area Planning Department)
 Five-Year Construction Budget & Forecast (attached)
 Distribution Substation Project File
These plans are dynamic and are revised on an annual basis. Substation projects have the 
longest equipment lead times and require more advance planning. However, it is not efficient 
to plan distribution feeder improvement work years in advance since construction lead times 
are relatively short and system changes occur frequently. These changes are usually 
initiated by unforeseen new business loads that may alter the priority of distribution 
expenditures. Substation planning is accomplished by performing a ten - year peak loading 
forecast. Banks that exceed Georgia Power’s “Transformer Loading Guidelines” are 
candidates for upgrade projects if load shifts are not possible. A five-year budget is then 
prepared for these banks.
1
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

PROJECT NAME PROJECT DESCRIPTION NEED DATE ADDITIONS AMOUNT
CHARLES (GPC OWNED) Construct a 230kV customer substation on customer owned property. 
Customer will install and own all the transformer banks and low-side 
equipment.
8/1/2024
HYUNDAI MOTORS Construct a 230/25kV customer substation with two 120MVA banks, one 
100MVA bank, and one 60MVA bank on customer owned property. 12/20/2024
SOUTHMEADOW Construct a 230/25kV customer substation with three 60MVA banks on 
customer owned property. Customer paid for this facility. 12/25/2024
FOUR LAKES Purchase property and construct new 115/25kV area substation. Install 
one 115/25kV 60MVA bank. 1/1/2025
TRAE LANE (GPC OWNED)
Construct a 230kV customer substation on customer owned property. 
Customer will install and own all the transformer banks and low-side 
equipment. Customer paid for GPC owned facility.
2/28/2025
PUTNAM SAWMILL Purchase property and construct a new 115/12kV area substation. Install 
one 115/12kV 10.5MVA bank. 3/28/2025
WEST DEMOREST CAPACITY INCREASE
Replace Demorest 46/12kV substation with a new West Demorest 
115/12kV substation on purchased property. Install one 115/12kV 
25MVA bank in the new West Demorest substation.
3/31/2025
INTERSTATE CENTRE BANK A CAPACITY 
INCREASE PROJECT Replace 115/13.8kV 14MVA bank with a 115/25kV 60MVA bank. 4/1/2025
CORNELIA CAPACITY INCREASE Remove one 115/46kV 25MVA bank and one 115/12kV 22.4MVA bank. 
Install two 115/12kV 40MVA banks. 6/1/2025
OLD WASHINGTON ROAD
Construct 115/25/12kV area substation on property transferred from 
PHFFU. Install one 115/12kV 10.5MVA bank and one 115/25kV 10.5MVA 
bank. 
6/1/2025
RICE HOPE Construct 115/25kV area substation on property transferred from 
PHFFU. Install one 115/25kV 50MVA bank. 6/1/2025
SOUTHEAST STANLEY Purchase property and construct a new 115/25kV area substation. Install 
one 115/25kV 40MVA bank. 6/1/2025
VIRGINIA AVE 3RD BANK ADDITION Install a new 230/20kV 60MVA bank. 6/1/2025
2
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

PROJECT NAME PROJECT DESCRIPTION NEED DATE ADDITIONS AMOUNT
BELFAST COMMERCE Purchase property and construct new 115/25kV area substation. Install 
one 115/25kV 60MVA bank. 6/15/2025
SWITCH WAY 2ND BANK ADDITION Install a 230/12kV 60MVA bank. 6/30/2025
TRANSCO BANK B CAPACITY INCREASE Replace the 115/12kV 25MVA bank with a 115/12kV 40MVA bank. 8/1/2025
BULLARD ROAD Construct a 230/34.5kV customer substation with three 150MVA banks 
on customer owned property. 9/1/2025
EUCHEE CREEK 2ND BANK ADDITION Install a new 115/12kV 40MVA bank. 12/1/2025
LEWISTON Construct 115/12kV area substation on property transferred from 
PHFFU. Install one 115/12kV 40MVA bank. 12/1/2025
PATRIOTS PARK BANK B CAPACITY 
INCREASE Replace 115/12kV 25MVA Bank B with a 115/12kV 40MVA bank. 12/1/2025
TWO RUN RANCH Construct a 230/25kV customer substation with two 100MVA banks, and 
one 60MVA bank on customer owned property. 12/31/2025
AEROTROPOLIS SUBSTATION ADVANCED 
LAND PURCHASE
Acquire property suitable for future area substation on the west side of 
Hartsfield-Jackson airport property in the vicinity of the East Point -
Mountain View 115kV line.
12/31/2025
AVONDALE MILL ROAD BANK B CAPACITY 
INCREASE Replace 115/12kV 25MVA bank B with a 115/12kV 40MVA bank. 12/31/2025
CASS PINE Purchase property and construct a new 230/25kV area substation. Install 
one 230kV 60MVAR capacitor bank and two 230/25kV 40MVA banks. 12/31/2025
GODLEY TRACT 2ND BANK ADDITION Install a new 115/13.8kV 40MVA bank. 12/31/2025
GREAT VALLEY Construct new 230/25kV customer substation with three 60MVA banks 
on customer owned property. 12/31/2025
KINGSTON 2ND BANK ADDITION Install a new 230/25kV 40MVA bank. 12/31/2025
3
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

PROJECT NAME PROJECT DESCRIPTION NEED DATE ADDITIONS AMOUNT
MCCLAIN MOUNTAIN Purchase property and construct a new 115/12kV area substation. Install 
one 115/12kV 10.5MVA bank. 12/31/2025
TEMPLE 2ND BANK ADDITION Install a new 115/12kV 25MVA bank. 12/31/2025
BARNETT ROAD 2ND BANK ADDITION Install a new 115/25kV 40MVA bank. 3/1/2026
J.C. PENNEY 2ND BANK ADDITION Install a new 115/25kV 40MVA bank. 3/1/2026
PURECYCLE Construct new 230/12kV customer substation with two 40MVA banks on 
customer owned property. 3/1/2026
BOULDER PARK Construct new 230/25kV customer substation with four 60MVA banks on 
customer owned property. 3/30/2026
CARMEL CHURCH Purchase property and construct a new 115/25/12kV area substation. 
Install one 115/25kV 25MVA bank. 3/31/2026
TILFORD YARDS #2 Construct a 115/25kV customer substation with two 60MVA banks on 
customer owned property. Customer paid for this facility 3/31/2026
ECHECONNEE 2ND BANK ADDITION Install a new 115/12kV 40MVA Bank. 5/1/2026
BELAIR - 2ND BANK ADDITION Install a new 115/12kV 40MVA bank. 6/1/2026
CLYATTVILLE CAPACITY INCREASE Expand Clyattville substation and replace 69/12kV 5.25MVA bank with a 
69/12kV 10.5MVA bank 6/1/2026
CREOLA (GPC OWNED)
Construct a 230kV customer substation on customer owned property. 
Customer will install and own all the transformer banks and low-side 
equipment.
6/1/2026
CROOKED RIVER BANK B CAPACITY 
INCREASE Replace 115/12kV 25MVA Bank B with a 115/12kV 40MVA bank. 6/1/2026
DAWSON FOREST CAPACITY INCREASE
Replace Dawson Forest 115/12kV substation with a new Thunder Road 
115/25kV substation on purchased property. Install one 115/25kV 
25MVA bank in the new Thunder Road substation.
6/1/2026
4
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

PROJECT NAME PROJECT DESCRIPTION NEED DATE ADDITIONS AMOUNT
STONEWALL TELL ROAD (GPC OWNED)
Construct a 230kV customer substation on customer owned property. 
Customer will install and own all the transformer banks and low-side 
equipment. Customer paid for GPC owned facility.
6/1/2026
SWITCH WAY 3RD BANK ADDITION Install a 230/12kV 60MVA bank. Customer paid for this project. 6/1/2026
WILLIAMSON ROAD (GPC OWNED)
Construct a 115kV customer substation on customer owned property. 
Customer will install and own all the transformer banks and low-side 
equipment. Customer paid for GPC owned facility.
6/1/2026
DASHER JOHNSON ROAD Construct a 115/12kV customer substation with one 25MVA bank on 
customer owned property. 10/1/2026
CANON CAPACITY INCREASE
Replace Canon 46/12kV substation with new East Canon 115/12kV 
substation on purchased property. Install one 115/12kV 10.5MVA bank 
in the new East Canon substation.
12/31/2026
MANN POND Construct a 230/25kV customer substation with four 100MVA banks on 
customer owned property. Customer paid for this facility. 12/31/2026
MEDICAL ARTS Construct 115/13.8kV area substation on property transferred from 
PHFFU. Install two 115/13.8kV 25MVA banks. 12/31/2026
MONK ROAD CAPACITY INCREASE Replace 115/12kV 10.5MVA bank with a 115/12kV 25MVA bank. 12/31/2026
NORMANDY STREET ADVANCED LAND 
PURCHASE
Acquire 2 acre site in the vicinity of President Street and the Boulevard -
Deptford 115kV line in Savannah for future Area Substation. 12/31/2026
PHELPS Purchase property and construct a new 115/12kV area substation. Install 
one 115/12kV 25MVA bank. 12/31/2026
RABBITTOWN Purchase property and construct a new 115/25kV area substation. Install 
one 115/25kV 40MVA bank. 12/31/2026
EMBLEM RIVERSIDE Construct a 230/25kV customer substation with two 60MVA banks. 
Customer paid for this facility. 3/1/2027
BONANZA BANK B CAPACITY INCREASE Replace 115/25kV 40MVA bank B with a 115/25kV 60MVA bank. 6/1/2027
DIVIDEND ROAD BANK A CAPACITY 
INCREASE Replace 115/12kV 22.4MVA Bank A with a 115/12kV 40MVA bank. 6/1/2027
5
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

PROJECT NAME PROJECT DESCRIPTION NEED DATE ADDITIONS AMOUNT
FACTORY SHOALS ROAD CAPACITY 
INCREASE Replace 115/25kV 40MVA Bank B with a 115/25kV 60MVA bank. 6/1/2027
SALT CREEK Purchase property and construct a new 230/25kV area substation. Install 
one 230/25kV 50MVA bank. 6/1/2027
WINSTON Construct a 230/34.5kV customer substation with four 150MVA banks. 
Customer paid for this facility 6/1/2027
AWS RIVER PARK BUTTS COUNTY (GPC 
OWNED)
Construct a 230kV customer substation on customer owned property. 
Customer will install and own all the transformer banks and low-side 
equipment. Customer paid for GPC owned facility.
7/15/2027
NORTH BAGGETT
Construct a 230/34.5kV customer substation with five 150MVA 
transformers on customer owned property. Customer paid for this 
facility.
9/1/2027
BAKER PLACE BANK A - CAPACITY 
INCREASE Replace 115/12kV 25MVA bank A with a 115/12kV 40MVA bank. 12/1/2027
ALLEN RD 3RD BANK ADDITION Install a new 115/12kV, 40MVA bank. 12/31/2027
CENTENNIAL YARDS Purchase property and construct a 115/20kV area substation. Install four 
115/20kV 60MVA banks. 12/31/2027
CHICOPEE MANUFACTURING CAPACITY 
INCREASE
Replace Chicopee Manufacturing 115/25/12kV substation with new 
Balus Creek 115/25kV substation on purchased property. Install two 
115/25kV 40MVA banks in the new Balus Creek substation.
12/31/2027
NORTH CLARKESVILLE CAPACITY 
INCREASE
Replace North Clarkesville 46/12kV substation with a new Historic 441 
115/12kV substation on purchased property. Install one 115/12kV 
10.5MVA bank in the new Historic 441 substation.
12/31/2027
QTS SUWANEE (GPC OWNED)
Construct a 115kV customer substation on customer owned property. 
Customer will install and own all the transformer banks and low-side 
equipment. Customer paid for GPC owned facility.
12/31/2027
REST HAVEN BANK B CAPACITY INCREASE Replace 115/25kV 10.5MVA bank with a 115/25kV 40MVA bank. 12/31/2027
SOCIAL CIRCLE CAPACITY INCREASE
Replace Social Circle 46/12kV substation with a new Hightower Trail 
115/25kV substation on purchased property. Install two 115/25kV 
40MVA banks in the new Hightower Trail substation.
12/31/2027
6
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

PROJECT NAME PROJECT DESCRIPTION NEED DATE ADDITIONS AMOUNT
SOCIAL CIRCLE PRIMARY CAPACITY 
INCREASE
Remove two 46/12kV 7MVA banks, one 115/46kV 22.4MVA bank, and 
one 115/46kV 25MVA bank. Install one 115/25kV 40MVA bank. 12/31/2027
FLAT ROCK ROAD 2ND BANK ADDITION Install a new 115/25kV 40MVA bank. 6/1/2028
PINE BARREN Purchase property and construct a new 115/13.2kV area substation. 
Install one 115/13.2kV 40MVA bank. 10/15/2028
QUACCO ROAD BANK B CAPACITY 
INCREASE PROJECT Replace a 115/13.2kV 33.3MVA bank with a 115/25kV 40MVA bank. 10/15/2028
MALLORY ROAD (GPC OWNED)
Construct a 230kV customer substation on customer owned property. 
Customer will install and own all the transformer banks and low-side 
equipment. Customer paid for GPC owned facility.
11/1/2028
PATRIOTS PARK BANK A CAPACITY 
INCREASE Replace 115/12kV 25MVA Bank A with a 115/12kV 40MVA bank. 12/1/2028
AVONDALE MILL ROAD 3RD BANK 
ADDITION Expand substation and install a new 115/12kV 40MVA bank. 12/31/2028
HIGHWAY 99 CAPACITY INCREASE Replace 115/12kV 10MVA bank with a 115/12kV 25MVA bank. 12/31/2028
RUTLAND - ADVANCE LAND PURCHASE Acquire property suitable for a future area substation on the Broadway -
Echeconnee 115kV line. 12/31/2028
7
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

[G]
BUDGETING

[G1]
AVERAGE INCREMENTAL COST
OVERVIEW

1
Profitability / Reliability Incremental Cost Evaluation Model Overview
Georgia Power’s Profitability / Reliability Incremental Cost Evaluation Model (PRICEM)
uses inputs from both Distribution and Transmission to calculate an average incremental 
cost to be used in the financial evaluation of future projects. The PRICEM model applies 
these additional capacity costs based on the impact of the added load on the system 
demand. The objective is to ensure adequate resources to maintain operational flexibility 
and customer reliability.
Distribution Average Incremental Cost Methodology
In 2021, Georgia Power Company commissioned a study to re-evaluate Distribution 
Average Incremental Costs. This study considered recently completed and future 
projects for both Distribution substations and feeder projects. Details from this study are 
shown in the corresponding sections for both substations and feeders.
Distribution Substations
The Company compiled a list of recently completed and future distribution substation
projects from 2022 through 2026. This sample of 487 projects was evaluated as to cost 
and additional capacity added. A per kW substation cost was calculated for the group of 
projects. The kW used in the study was added capacity, not added load. The result of
the formula below provides the Company with the Distribution Substation Average 
Incremental cost.
Note: A power factor of .97 was used to convert kVA capacity to kW capacity.
$/kW = 
 (Project Costs in 2024 Dollars)
 (Delta kW Capacity) 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

2
Distribution Feeders
A similar dollar per kW capacity study was done in 2023 for distribution feeders. The 
Company extracted data from a GIS mapping system for approximately 2500 existing 
feeders to determine the average length of the “trunk feeder” portion of a feeder and the 
average length of the “tap lines” that pull off the main trunk feeder. The trunk feeder is 
the large conductor, three phase portions originating at the substation and often running 
for several miles to an open point, smaller conductor, or fewer than three phases. Tap 
lines are typically smaller conductor extensions that may have fewer than three phases. 
Current feeder construction cost estimates were used to establish the average cost per 
mile of distribution trunk feeders and tap lines. Using the average lengths and average 
cost per mile of trunk feeders and tap lines along with the feeder planning capacity limit
of trunk feeders and tap lines allows the calculation of the separate cost per kW of 
capacity for each of these components of a distribution feeder.
Since trunk feeder and tap line planning capacity limits are proportional to the feeder 
voltage, a blended average of 25 kV feeder $/kW costs and lower voltage feeder $/kW 
costs was used.
Note: A power factor of .97 was used to convert kVA capacity to kW capacity. 
 
$/kW(trunk feeder) = 
(trunk feeder planning capacity limit)
 
$/kW(tap line) = 
(tap line planning capacity limit)
$/kW = 
2
($/kW @ 25 kV + $/kW @ less than 25 kV)
 
(avg. trunk feeder mi. x costs per mi.)
 
(avg. tap line mi. x costs per mi.)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

3
Transmission Average Incremental Cost Methodology
The following methodology is used annually to estimate the marginal cost of transmission
($/kW) by determining the average cost to add load at existing substations utilizing the 
transmission planning base case models.
• Load is increased at a substation until the first transmission constraint is identified.
• A transmission project is then estimated and implemented in the case to alleviate 
that first constraint.
• Load is then further increased at that substation until a second transmission 
constraint is identified.
• The estimated cost of the transmission project is divided by the load growth 
afforded by the transmission project between the first and second constraints.
• This process is repeated and averaged for substations across the Southern 
Company footprint.
$⁄𝒌𝑾 = 𝑨𝒗𝒆𝒓𝒂𝒈𝒆 (
𝑷𝒓𝒐𝒋𝒆𝒄𝒕 𝑪𝒐𝒔𝒕
𝑲𝑾 𝑮𝒓𝒐𝒘𝒕𝒉 )
The method described above has historically been effective in determining the 
incremental transmission costs, particularly for the 115kV and 230kV systems. The 
Southern Balancing Authority is experiencing significant load growth that will require the 
need to expand the 500kV transmission system. To account for the additional investment 
needed for the 500kV system, a 500kV marginal cost adder has been developed,
𝟓𝟎𝟎𝒌𝑽 𝑴𝒂𝒓𝒈𝒊𝒏𝒂𝒍 𝑪𝒐𝒔𝒕 𝑨𝒅𝒅𝒆𝒓 =
𝑪𝒐𝒔𝒕 𝒐𝒇 𝟓𝟎𝟎𝒌𝑽 𝑷𝒓𝒐𝒋𝒆𝒄𝒕𝒔 𝒊𝒏 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝑻𝒆𝒏 𝒀𝒆𝒂𝒓 𝑷𝒍𝒂𝒏
𝒀𝟏𝟎𝑳𝒐𝒂𝒅 (𝒄𝒖𝒓𝒓𝒆𝒏𝒕 𝒗𝒊𝒏𝒕𝒂𝒈𝒆)− 𝒀𝟏𝑳𝒐𝒂𝒅 (𝒑𝒓𝒆𝒗𝒊𝒐𝒖𝒔 𝒗𝒊𝒏𝒕𝒂𝒈𝒆)
With the 500kV Marginal Cost Adder developed, the Marginal Transmission Cost 
becomes,
𝑴𝒂𝒓𝒈𝒊𝒏𝒂𝒍 𝑻𝒓𝒂𝒏𝒔𝒎𝒊𝒔𝒔𝒊𝒐𝒏 𝑪𝒐𝒔𝒕 = 𝑨𝒗𝒆𝒓𝒂𝒈𝒆 𝑰𝒏𝒄𝒓𝒆𝒎𝒆𝒏𝒕𝒂𝒍 𝑪𝒐𝒔𝒕+ 𝟓𝟎𝟎𝒌𝑽 𝑴𝒂𝒓𝒈𝒊𝒏𝒂𝒍 𝑪𝒐𝒔𝒕 𝑨𝒅𝒅𝒆𝒓
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

[G2]
BUDGETING & BUDGET 
CONTROL

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
1
Transmission Capital Project and Blanket Approval
This procedure describes the funding approval process for Transmission capital projects 
and blankets.
Transmission Capital Project Approval 
Early each year, Southern Company Services Transmission Planning-East, GPC Area 
Planning, and GPC Transmission Support review transmission project requests and work 
with the budgeting team to develop the upcoming budget. 
Southern Company Services Transmission Planning-East identifies projects and presents 
them to Transmission management during a rating and ranking review. These are projects 
that have NERC compliance requirements and upcoming growth needs. This ranking 
identifies the most critical projects to be submitted for budget consideration. 
Georgia Power Company Area Planning and GPC Transmission Support submit their 
budget needs for ongoing projects and programs in addition to any projects identified 
through routine inspections of the Transmission system. Once these requests have been 
compiled, the budgets are presented to Transmission management for review. Details are 
presented on the justification for the project, costs, schedule, and risks. 
Upon completion of management review, Finance presents the budget request to the 
Transmission & Distribution (T&D) Council for consideration and approval. A review is 
done at a high level of detail on projects with factors including high costs, public exposure 
such as significant land acquisition, distribution duct systems, etc. 
The T&D Council reviews the proposed budget and recommends modification to these 
project requests as necessary and then approves the final budget submission. Any project 
over $5,000,000 will be taken to the T&D Council for spend approval once it is ready to 
begin.
Once the budget cycle is complete, new project requests less than $500,000 are 
approved by the Project Manager and sent to the Finance Supervisor for funding. Any 
project over $500,000 will go through the Transmission Project Review Team (TPRT),
which includes representatives from multiple areas of Transmission including planning, 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
2
design, operations, and scheduling. The projects are presented to the TPRT where they 
review the justification, technical solution, and schedule. 
Once approved, the projects are routed to the Finance Supervisor who reviews the project 
funding requirements to determine how to proceed. If the project costs less than 
$5,000,000, the Finance Supervisor reviews and approves the project if acceptable. 
If the project is a New Business project with costs greater than $1,000,000, the Supervisor 
reviews and, if acceptable, presents the project to the T&D Council for final approval.
All other projects with costs greater than $5,000,000 are reviewed by the Supervisor and, 
if acceptable, are presented to the T&D Council for final approval. 
Any increase in project costs or significant scope changes after approval must be 
approved by the appropriate level as outlined above with the exception that minor scope 
changes in projects and/or allocation of project dollars between budget years can be 
approved by the Finance Supervisor without functional management approval. 
Once projects are approved, engineering groups or the Land Department can create work 
orders in TEAMS. 
When Capital Projects are for business units other than Transmission, the Finance 
Supervisor will get business unit management approvals before sending these projects 
forward through the approval process (e.g. modification to transmission facilities for 
generation). 
T&D Capital Blanket Approval 
Transmission Blankets: Projects are created and categorized under Capital Drivers1(e.g. 
New Business, Reliability, Capital Maintenance, System Operations, Load Related 
System Improvements). Projects must have estimates in TEAMS and can have 
schedules.
1Through the Enterprise Foundations initiative, reporting transitioned from using Project Expenditures 
(PEs) to using Capital Drivers.

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
3
Distribution Blankets: Projects are created and categorized under Capital Drivers (e.g. 
New Business, Reliability, Capital Maintenance, Grid Improvement). The estimates and 
Distribution Work Orders (DWOs) are created in JETS. 
The Finance Supervisor reviews funding level requests from the various T&D business 
units and recommends funding levels to the T&D Council for consideration and approval. 
Blanket owners present significant changes in budgetary needs to the T&D Council at this 
time. 
The T&D Council reviews and approves funding level requests, if acceptable, which 
authorizes spending to these approved levels.
Formal BCA Approvals 
Initial BCA or BCA with changes less than $500,000 plant additions: Project Manager 
Initial BCA or BCA with changes more than $500,000 and less than $5,000,000 plant 
additions: TPRT 
For New Business projects specifically, initial BCA or BCA with changes greater than 
$1,000,000 plant additions: TPRT, T&D Council
Initial BCA or BCA with changes greater than $5,000,000 plant additions: TPRT, T&D 
Council
Exhibit 1 below illustrates all authorized approval limits outlined in this procedure.

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
4
Exhibit 1
Authorized Approval Limits
Project Approval Authorizations
Project Cost Authorized Approval
Less Than or Equal to $500,000 Project Manager
Greater Than $500,000 & Less Than 
$5,000,000
Transmission Project Review 
Team (TPRT)
Greater Than $1,000,000 - New 
Business Projects TPRT, T&D Council
Greater Than $5,000,000 - All Projects TPRT, T&D Council
Budget Change Authorizations Approvals
Project Cost Authorized Approval
Less Than or Equal to $500,000 Project Manager
Greater Than $500,000 & Less Than 
$5,000,000 TPRT
Greater Than $1,000,000 - New 
Business Projects TPRT, T&D Council
Greater Than $5,000,000 - All Projects TPRT, T&D Council
Blanket Authorizations Approvals
Project Cost Authorized Approval
Less Than or Equal to $300,000 Estimator
Greater than $300,000 & Less than or 
Equal to $500,000 Project Manager
Greater Than $500,000 & Less Than 
$5,000,000 TPRT
Greater Than $1,000,000 - New 
Business Projects TPRT, T&D Council
Greater Than $5,000,000 - All Projects TPRT, T&D Council

[G3]
POWER DELIVERY CAPACITY 
ADDITION EXPANSION PLAN

2025 - 2034 T & D CAPACITY ADDITION EXPANSION PLAN
NETWORK LOAD SERVING
TRANSMISSION DISTRIBUTION TOTALS
(Plan Trans.) (Future Trans.) (Plan Dist.) (Future Dist.)
1 2025 $ 419,995,051 $ 146,977,135 $ 566,972,186
2 2026 $ 623,126,504 $ 252,011,693 $ 875,138,197
3 2027 $ 1,092,359,906 $ 311,996,427 $ 1,404,356,333
4 2028 $ 1,518,597,793 $ 324,134,863 $ 1,842,732,656
5 2029 $ 1,441,978,038 $ 340,979,541 $ 1,782,957,580
6 2030 $ 1,492,447,270 $ 352,913,825 $ 1,845,361,095
7 2031 $ 1,544,682,924 $ 365,265,809 $ 1,909,948,733
8 2032 $ 1,598,746,826 $ 378,050,112 $ 1,976,796,939
9 2033 $ 1,654,702,965 $ 391,281,866 $ 2,045,984,832
10 2034 $ 1,712,617,569 $ 404,976,732 $ 2,117,594,301
Total $ 5,096,057,293 $ 8,003,197,555 $ 1,376,099,659 $ 1,892,488,345 $ 16,367,842,851
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

 $-
 $500,000,000
 $1,000,000,000
 $1,500,000,000
 $2,000,000,000
 $2,500,000,000
2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031 2032 2033 2034
Year
(Plan Trans.) 2025 - 2034 Capacity Additions
(Future Trans.)
(Plan Dist.)
(Future Dist.)
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

[G4]
APPROVED PROJECTS
(BCA WITH DOCUMENTATION)
(REFER TO FOLDER “SECTION G4 –
APPROVED PROJECTS” ON CEII 
PORTION OF GA PSC FTP SITE)

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
BUDGET CHANGE AUTHORIZATIONS
A Budget Change Authorization (BCA) is a document that describes certain information 
about a project, including:
• Project Name
• Project ID Number
• Need Date for the overall project and for individual items within the project
• Description (scope) for the overall project and for individual items within the 
project
• A brief Supporting Statement
• Costs for each item, by year
• Overall cost of the project, and, if applicable, the change from any previously 
authorized amount
When completed, the BCA is routed through various levels of management to attain 
project approval. In addition to the BCA itself, a package of documentation is attached, 
including:
• A document detailing background and problem description, study assumptions, 
discussion of any viable alternatives, recommendations, maps, drawings and 
other supporting data
• A detailed engineering and construction schedule
• A listing of materials and estimates of their procurement and installation costs
Budget Change Authorizations and supporting documentation for all approved 
Transmission Planning projects approved since the 2022 IRP filing are included in the 
“Section G4 – Approved Projects” under CEII->Technical Appendix Volume 3 on the GA 
PSC FTP site. A sample project follows.

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
SOME INFORMATION IN THE 
SAMPLE BCA HAS BEEN 
REDACTED.
THE CEII FOLDER IS ONLY 
ACCESSIBLE TO THOSE WITH 
PROPER AUTHORIZATION - ALL 
FILES LOADED TO THE FOLDER 
ARE REDACTED IN THEIR 
ENTIRETY.

TEAMS Project ID: 20466
Current Total Additions: $
Total Requested Additions: $
Increase (Decrease): $
Project Short Description: CIAC: $
Cash Required: $
Removals: $
Yes No or N/A
ITS Parity "Cost by Units" analysis
ITS Parity & DSF Crew Support Estimated
DSF only Major Equipment (qty, estimated)
Non-ITS Mobile estimated
<$100,000 Schedule/Budget Spread Rvw
CIAC
Checklist
Yes No or N/A Yes No or N/A
BCA Documents (New Projects) Solution Team
Budget Spread by Year Scoping Meeting
ITS Document (WAR/PCD/TIN) Project Plan on Project Site
Land Item Required Operations Review
Telecom and SIA Impact TP East Review
New Business Budget Owner Approval
Change Log Budget Pre Load
Distribution Scope Required
PD Budget Prioritization Scoring Security
Project Manager Approval in TEAMS PRC 6/1/2025
Cost Variance Explanation Vegetation
Signed Contract (IA, Customer, DOT, WAR) Other
Project Contacts
Project Originator: Project Manager:
Date: Distribution Project Manager: N/A
Approval Type 
(select one)
ITS Treatment 
(Select all that apply)
Estimate Review
For Information 
Only
3/11/2024
Compliance Impact
 Expedited? (No) Date: N/A
Transmission Project Review Team
Project Approval Checklist
Project Information
Project Name:
Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton area to mitigate thermal constraints in 
multiple lines in the area.
SMART VALVE INSTALLATION
New Project
Cost Revision
Year Revision
Design Change
Execution Revision
Order Material
Conceptual Design
Product Change
New Project
Cost Revision
Year Revision
Design Change
Execution Revision
Order Material
Conceptual Design
Product Change
New Project
Cost Revision
Year Revision
Design Change
Execution Revision
Order Material
Conceptual Design
Product Change
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

Originator:
Project Manager:
Department: TRANSMISSION PLANNING - EAST
Project Name: SMART VALVE INSTALLATION
Project Need Date: 06/01/2025
Estimated Start Date:
Latest Required Date: 06/01/2025
Funding 
Numn:
11073072
This Revision:
Category: 20466 Smart Valve Installation
Area: CENTRAL-ATHENS, CENTRAL-MACON
Region: CENTRAL
 Type: Capital
Project Description:
BCA Approved 11/15/23
Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Branch areas to mitigate thermal 
constraints in several lines in the area.
Supporting Statement: 
Facility Name Plt Addn 
Project Fac Reqd Area Location Ownr Engr. Loc
Item No. Project Description
EATONTON PRIMARY $
2046601 06/01/2025 GPCO 15-542
OPTION 1: Installing Smart Valve Just Outside the existing fence 
- Northwest side see attachment to this PI.
 Installation of Smart Valve devices at Eatonton Primary on the 
Eatonton Primary-Oasis 230kV line and the Branch - Oasis 230kV 
line.
This PI covers (intends to capture) Smart Valve material and GPC 
construction labor only.
All other costs will be captured on PI 2046607.
Project Manager
Financial Supervisor
Approvals and Dates:
Lead Project Manager
Budget Coordinator
TMCRPR25
Page: 1 of 6
Date:
Time:02:22:58 PM
03/11/2024
BUDGET CHANGE
Project ID: 20466
GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

Facility Name Plt Addn 
Project Fac Reqd Area Location Ownr Engr. Loc
Item No. Project Description
EATONTON PRIMARY - OASIS 230KV $
2046604 06/01/2025 GPCO
GPC LINE WORK: 
Line modifications to first outside the northwest side of 
substation: Between substation structure and structrue 42.
1/22/2024 ROF Note: Estimate most conservative scenario to be 
able to cover the highest potential cost associate with this 
work.
Summary of Scope of Work:
Line modifications to first outside the northwest side of 
substation: Between substation structure and structure 42.
Segment: SW 190231 EATONTON (42) - STR (89)
Structure 42: (2) Lattice Steel 100 feet high; Martin 1361.5
54/19 ASCR Conductor
- (3) Brown Disc Insulators 16 Disc per String; (12) Steel 
Galvanized 7/16" Guys, (12) 2 Helix Anchors; Grounding # 2CU
*** Estimators comments are located in the "Estimate Notes" tab 
***
****************PCA NOTES - 02/13/2024****************
- Update Eatonton Primary-Oasis 230kV TLD as necessary.
***************END PCA NOTES*****************
BRANCH - OASIS 230KV $
2046605 06/01/2025 GPCO
GPC LINE WORK: 
Line modifications to first outside the northwest side of 
substation: Between substation structure and structrue 42.
1/22/2024 ROF Note: Estimate most conservative scenario to be 
able to cover the highest potential cost associate with this 
work.
Summary of Scope of Work:
Line modifications to first outside the northwest side of 
substation: Between substation structure and structure 42.
Segment: SW 190319 EATONTON PRIMARY (42) - STR 89
Structure 42: (2) Lattice Steel 100 feet high; Martin 1361.5
54/19 ASCR Conductor
- (3) Brown Disc Insulators 16 Disc per String; (12) Steel 
Galvanized 7/16" Guys, (12) 2 Helix Anchors; Grounding # 2CU
*** Estimators comments are located in the "Estimate Notes" 
tab.***
****************PCA NOTES - 02/13/2024****************
- Update Branch-Oasis 230kV line TLD as necessary.
***************END PCA NOTES*****************
TMCRPR25
Page: 2 of 6
Date:
Time:02:22:58 PM
03/11/2024
BUDGET CHANGE
Project ID: 20466
GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

Facility Name Plt Addn 
Project Fac Reqd Area Location Ownr Engr. Loc
Item No. Project Description
EATONTON PRIMARY 190442 - RAYONIER 46 KV $
2046606 06/01/2025 GPCO
GPC LINE WORK: Needed for Option 1.
Line modifications between structures 1A,1 and 2 to acommodate 
the installation of Smart Valve on the 230kV lines just outside 
the Eatonton Primary station.
1/22/2024 ROF Note: Estimate most conservative scenario to be 
able to cover the highest potential cost associate with this 
work.
Summary of Scope of Work:
Line modifications between structures 1A and 2 to accommodate the 
installation of Smart Valve on the 230kV lines just outside the 
Eatonton Primary station.
Segment 3: SW 190319 EATONTON PRIMARY (42) - STR 89; Penguin 4/0
ACSR w/ 6/1 Stranding; 5/16" Galvanized Steel Shield Wire
- Structure 2: 65'/Class H1S Concrete Pole; (3) 69kV Polymer Post 
Insulators & (5) 20K. 10" Porcelain Disc w/ 7 Disc per String 
Insulators; 7#10 CW Driven Rod Grounding; (6) ½" Galvanized Steel 
w/ 7 Stranding Guy Wires; (4) 2 Helix Anchors; (6) Fiberglass w/ 
54 Length and 50000 Strength Guy Insulators.
Segment 2: EATONTON JCT (1) - SW 190401 N.O. EATONTON; Linnet 
336.4 w/ 26/7 Stranding ACSR; 5/16" Galvanized Steel Shield Wire
- Structure 2: 40'/Class 4 Wood Pole; (6) Brown Disc Insulators 
w/ 5 disc per string; 7#10 CW Driven Rod Grounding; (3) 3/8" 
Galvanized Steel Guy Wires w. 7 Stranding; (3) Expanding Guy 
Anchors; (1) Fiberglass ACME Guy Insulator w/ 35 Length and 21000
 Strength; (2) Fiberglass ACME Guy Insulator w/ 54 Length and 
21000 Strength
Segment 1: SW 190443 EATONTON - EATONTON JCT; Linnet 336.4 w/ 
26/7 Stranding ACSR; 5/16" Galvanized Steel Shield Wire
- Structure 1: 60'/Class 2 Wood Pole; (2) 7/16" Galvanized Steel 
Guys; (2) Single Helix Anchors; (2) Fiberglass ACME Electric 54
Length w/ 21000 Strength Guy Insulators; 
- Structure 1A: 45'/Class 3 Wood Pole (6) Polymer 46kV Strain w/ 
1 disc per string & (3) Polymer Post 46kV w/ disc per string; 2) 
7/16" Galvanized Steel Guys; (1) 2 Helix Anchors; (2) Fiberglass 
ACME Electric 54 Length w/ 21000 Strength Guy Insulators; 
Estimate Assumptions:
Remove
- 720' Transmission Conductors and OHGW
- Structure 1A, 1, 2, & 2
Install
- 720' transmission conductors and OHGW
- Structure 2 Segment 3: 45'/LC7 Concrete Pole; 3-Way Deadend; 
(3WECB3; BT-.038.1)
- Structure 2A: 45'/LC7 Concrete Pole; One Pole Double String, 
Type 3 Large Angle Structure (1CDS3; BT-020.1)
- Structure 1: 45'/LC7 Concrete Pole; One Pole Double String, 
Type 2 Medium Angle Structure (1SCSP2; BT-018.1)
- Structure 1A: 45'/LC7 Concrete Pole; One Pole Double String, 
Type 2 Medium Angle Structure (1SCSP2; BT-018.1)
- Structure 2 Segment 2: 40/LC7 Concrete Pole; One Pole Double 
String, Type 2 Medium Angle Structure (1SCSP2; BT-018.1)
Labor Estimates
Engineering
- Pre-Engineering - Hours
- Preliminary Engineering - Hours
TMCRPR25
Page: 3 of 6
Date:
Time:02:22:58 PM
03/11/2024
BUDGET CHANGE
Project ID: 20466
GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

- Field Activity - Engineering - Hours 
- Eng/Design - Hours
Construction
- Labor - weeks @ days per week ( on 2/8/24)
Construction Support
- ROW Clearing - N/A
- Crew Support - 10 units @ $ = $ Total
? weeks @ $ per Week
- Civil - Final pole locations, classes, and work sequences to be 
coordinated with civil site plan and final grade for smart valve 
installation.
EATONTON PRIMARY $
2046607 06/01/2025 GPCO 15-542
OPTION 1: Installing Smart Valve Just Outside the existing fence 
- Northwest side see attachment to this PI.
 Installation of Smart Valve devices at Eatonton Primary on the 
Eatonton Primary-Oasis 230kV line and the Branch - Oasis 230kV 
line.
This PI covers (intends to capture) SoCo/GPC efforts related to 
the project. Smart Valve material and labor has been captured on 
PI 2046601.
Additional Scope (1/31/24): Install traps and tuners on either 
side of the Smart Valves devices for both 230kV lines.
****************PCA NOTES - 02/13/2024****************
Oasis 230kV Line: 
 - Update relay settings for new Smart Valve. Increase Zone 2 to 
cover entire line impedance with full Smart Valve impedance.
***************END PCA NOTES*****************
TMCRPR25
Page: 4 of 6
Date:
Time:02:22:58 PM
03/11/2024
BUDGET CHANGE
Project ID: 20466
GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

Proj Item : 2046601 2046604 2046605 2046606 2046607
Plt Add :
 (CIAC) :
Net Add :
 (Plt Tfr):
Removal :
 (CIRC) :
 (Salvage):
Cash Rqd :
OCR :
Funding : 11073072
Proj Item : Totals
Plt Add :
 (CIAC) :
Net Add :
 (Plt Tfr):
Removal :
 (CIRC) :
 (Salvage):
Cash Rqd :
OCR :
Items
TMCRPR25
Page: 5 of 6
Date:
Time:02:22:58 PM
03/11/2024
BUDGET CHANGE
Project ID: 20466
GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

** End of Report **
TMCRPR25
Page: 6 of 6
Date:
Time:02:22:58 PM
03/11/2024
BUDGET CHANGE
Project ID: 20466
GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

TEAMS ID: 20466
Project Name: Current Total Additions: $
Total Requested Additions: $
Budget Spread Requirements Increase (Decrease): $
CIAC: $
Cash Required: $
Removals: $
Project Item 2046601
OP Task Total Amount Previous 2024 2025 2026 2027 Total
Task 10 - Engineering 
Labor $ -
Overheads $ -
Transportation $ - $ -
Task 12 - Land 
Labor $ - $ -
Material $ - $ -
Overheads $ - $ -
Transportation $ - $ -
Task 14 - Material 
Material $ $ $ 1 $ $ 
Task 15 - Construction
Labor $ $ - $ $ 
Overheads $ - $ -
Transportation $ - $ -
Task Z - Other Project Offsets
Task 92 - CIAC $ - $ -
Task 94 - Salvage $ - $ -
Task 98 - AFUDC $ $ 
Requested Cash Req'd $ $ $ $ $ - $ - $ 
*Raw Cost totals for each OP task can be found using TEAMS to OP POWER BI report 
Each Project Item requires an individual Budget Spread. All dollars should be Cash Required. Each PI total should match Estimated 
Cost By Units Report. For Revisions, only add new Project Items, canceled Project Items or out of variance Project Items.
Budget Spread Request
Project Information
SMART VALVE INSTALLATION
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

TEAMS ID: 20466
Project Name: Current Total Additions: $
Total Requested Additions: $
Budget Spread Requirements Increase (Decrease): $
CIAC: $
Cash Required: $
Removals: $
Project Item 2046604
OP Task Total Amount Previous 2024 2025 2026 2027 Total
Task 10 - Engineering 
Labor $ $ - $ $ $ - $ - $ 
Overheads $ $ - $ $ $ - $ - $ 
Transportation $ $ - $ $ $ - $ - $ 
Task 12 - Land 
Labor $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ -
Material $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ -
Overheads $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ -
Transportation $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ -
Task 14 - Material 
Material $ $ - $ - $ $ - $ - $ 
Task 15 - Construction
Labor $ $ - $ - $ $ - $ - $ 
Overheads $ $ - $ - $ $ - $ - $ 
Transportation $ $ - $ - $ $ - $ - $ 
Task Z - Other Project Offsets
Task 92 - CIAC $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ -
Task 94 - Salvage $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ -
Task 98 - AFUDC $ $ - $ $ $ - $ - $ 
Requested Cash Req'd $ $ - $ $ $ - $ - $ 
*Raw Cost totals for each OP task can be found using TEAMS to OP POWER BI report 
Budget Spread Request
Project Information
SMART VALVE INSTALLATION
Each Project Item requires an individual Budget Spread. All dollars should be Cash Required. Each PI total should match 
Estimated Cost By Units Report. For Revisions, only add new Project Items, canceled Project Items or out of variance 
Project Items.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

TEAMS ID: 20466
Project Name: Current Total Additions: $
Total Requested Additions: $
Budget Spread Requirements Increase (Decrease): $
CIAC: $
Cash Required: $
Removals: $
Project Item 2046605
OP Task Total Amount Previous 2024 2025 2026 2027 Total
Task 10 - Engineering 
Labor $ $ $ $ 
Overheads $ $ $ $ 
Transportation $ $ $ $ 
Task 12 - Land
Labor $ -
Material $ -
Overheads $ -
Transportation $ -
Task 14 - Material
Material $ $ $ 
Task 15 - Construction
Labor $ $ $ 
Overheads $ $ $ 
Transportation $ $ $ 
Task Z - Other Project Offsets
Task 92 - CIAC $ -
Task 94 - Salvage $ -
Task 98 - AFUDC $ $ $ $ 
Requested Cash Req'd $ $ - $ $ $ - $ - $ 
*Raw Cost totals for each OP task can be found using TEAMS to OP POWER BI report 
Budget Spread Request
Project Information
SMART VALVE INSTALLATION
Each Project Item requires an individual Budget Spread. All dollars should be Cash Required. Each PI total should match 
Estimated Cost By Units Report. For Revisions, only add new Project Items, canceled Project Items or out of variance 
Project Items.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

TEAMS ID: 20466
Project Name: Current Total Additions: $
Total Requested Additions: $
Budget Spread Requirements Increase (Decrease): $
CIAC: $
Cash Required: $
Removals: $
Project Item 2046606
OP Task Total Amount Previous 2024 2025 2026 2027 Total
Task 10 - Engineering 
Labor $ $ $ 
Overheads $ $ $ 
Transportation $ $ $ 
Task 12 - Land 
Labor $ - $ -
Material $ - $ -
Overheads $ - $ -
Transportation $ - $ -
Task 14 - Material 
Material $ $ $ 
Task 15 - Construction 
Labor $ $ $ 
Overheads $ $ $ 
Transportation $ $ $ 
Task Z - Other Project Offsets 
Task 92 - CIAC $ - $ -
Task 94 - Salvage $ - $ -
Task 98 - AFUDC $ $ $ 
Requested Cash Req'd $ $ - $ $ - $ - $ - $ 
*Raw Cost totals for each OP task can be found using TEAMS to OP POWER BI report 
Budget Spread Request
Project Information
SMART VALVE INSTALLATION
Each Project Item requires an individual Budget Spread. All dollars should be Cash Required. Each PI total should match 
Estimated Cost By Units Report. For Revisions, only add new Project Items, canceled Project Items or out of variance 
Project Items.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

TEAMS ID: 20466
Project Name: Current Total Additions: $
Total Requested Additions: $
Budget Spread Requirements Increase (Decrease): $
CIAC: $
Cash Required: $
Removals: $
Project Item 2046607
OP Task Total Amount Previous 2024 2025 2026 2027 Total
Task 10 - Engineering 
Labor $ $ $ $ 
Overheads $ $ $ $ 
Transportation $ $ - $ $ $ 
Task 12 - Land 
Labor $ - $ -
Material $ - $ -
Overheads $ - $ -
Transportation $ - $ -
Task 14 - Material 
Material $ $ $ 
Task 15 - Construction
Labor $ $ $ 
Overheads $ $ $ 
Transportation $ $ $ 
Task Z - Other Project Offsets
Task 92 - CIAC $ -
Task 94 - Salvage $ -
Task 98 - AFUDC $ $ $ 
Requested Cash Req'd $ $ - $ $ $ - $ - $ 
*Raw Cost totals for each OP task can be found using TEAMS to OP POWER BI report 
Budget Spread Request
Project Information
SMART VALVE INSTALLATION
Each Project Item requires an individual Budget Spread. All dollars should be Cash Required. Each PI total should match Estimated 
Cost By Units Report. For Revisions, only add new Project Items, canceled Project Items or out of variance Project Items.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

Activity
Id
Activity
Description
Activity
Start
S/A Activity
Finish
S/A Supv Eng
/For
Org
Dur
Rem
Dur
Float
Total
Predecessor
Activity
Pred
Type
Lag
Days
DESC EATONTON PRIMARY SUB A S HLUN ANAL G1-SCHEDULE PR_SS 0
HPB01 PR_SS 0
G1-GATE1 GATE 1 INITIATION PHASE A A HLUN ANAL G1-SCHEDULE PR_SS 0
G1-GATE12 SUBMIT GATE 1 TRANSITION (1-20) A A HLUN ANAL G1-GATE1 PR_FF 0
G1-PRIOR PR_FS 0
G1-PRIOR VALIDATE PROJECT PRIORITIZATION (1-18) A A HLUN ANAL G1-SCHEDULE PR_FS 0
G1-SCHEDULE INITIATE LONG RANGE PLANNING SCHEDULE (1-15) A A HLUN ANAL 0 0
DEREST DISTRIBUTION CONCEPTUAL ESTIMATE REQUEST (NOT 
NEEDED)
A A HLUN ANAL DPRTCA PR_FS 0
DEREST01 DISTRIBUTION CONCEPTUAL DESIGN ENGINEERING A A HLUN ANAL DEREST PR_FS 0
DEREST02 DISTRIBUTION CONCEPTUAL ESTIMATE SUBMITTAL A A HLUN ANAL DEREST01 PR_FS 0
DISTCC DISTRIBUTION CONSTRUCTION COMPLETION A A HLUN ANAL DISTOHC PR_FS 0
DISTUDC PR_FS 0
DISTEASE DISTRIBUTION EASEMENT A A HLUN ANAL DEREST02 PR_FS 0
DISTJPS DISTRIBUTION JOB PACKAGE SUBMITTAL A A HLUN ANAL DISTEASE PR_FS 0
DISTPERM PR_FS 0
DPRTFAP PR_FS 0
DISTMAT DISTRIBUTION ORDER LONG LEAD MATERIAL A A HLUN ANAL DEREST02 PR_FS 0
DISTOHC DISTRIBUTION OVERHEAD CONSTRUCTION (NOT NEEDED) A A HLUN ANAL DISTJPS PR_FS 0
DISTPERM DISTRIBUTION PERMITTING A A HLUN ANAL DEREST02 PR_FS 0
DISTUDC DISTRIBUTION UNDERGROUND CONSTRUCTION A A HLUN ANAL DISTJPS PR_FS 0
DISTWOC DISTRIBUTION FIELD CLOSE A A HLUN ANAL DISTCC PR_FS 40
DPRTCA DPRT CONCEPT APPROVAL A A HLUN ANAL G1-SCHEDULE PR_FS 0
G2-CEDESMET PR_FS 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 1 of 9
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:22:59 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046601
EATONTON PRIMARY
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
5/30/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046601
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

DPRTFAP DPRT/ BEST PRACTICE FINAL APPROVAL FOR DISTRIBUTION A A HLUN ANAL DEREST02 PR_FS 0
G2-ALL03 CONCEPTUAL/FORMAL SITE LOCATION (NOT NEEDED) A A RAWE UNAS G2-DEDCE01 PR_FS 3
G2-SCOPEPHASE PROJECT SCOPING PHASE A A HLUN ANAL G2-STAKE PR_FS 0
G2-CEDESMET CONCEPTUAL DESIGN KICKOFF MEETING A A HLUN ANAL G2-PEGWO PR_FS 2
G2-RISKMAN UPDATE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN A A HLUN ANAL G2-GTSRVW PR_FS 0
G2-
PREOUTAGE
PR_FS 0
G2-STAKE STAKEHOLDER NOTIFICATION A A HLUN ANAL G1-GATE12 PR_FS 10
HPB01 BUDGET APPROVAL A A HLUN ANAL G2-WOSUS PR_FS 0
G2-CONCEP GATE 2 CONCEPTUAL DESIGN PHASE A A HLUN ANAL G2-HPB01 PR_SS 0
G2-HPB01 BUDGET APPROVAL A A HLUN ANAL G2-
SCOPEPHASE
PR_SS 0
G2-DEDCE01 PRELIMINARY CONCEPTUAL DESIGN PLAN DWG A A RPRI UNAS G2-CEDESMET PR_FS 3
G2-PREOUTAGE PRELIMINARY OUTAGE COORDINATION A A HLUN ANAL G2-DEDQAEST PR_FS 2
G2-DEDSFED PR_FS 2
G2-GTSRVW PR_FS 2
G2-PEGWO CREATE WORK ORDER A A HLUN SUBA G2-HPB01 PR_FS 3
G2-WOSUS WORK ORDER SUSPENSION A A HLUN ANAL DESC PR_FF 0
G2-ALS013 PR_FS 0
G2-BAS01 PR_FS 0
G2-CONCEP PR_FF 0
G2-RISKMAN PR_FS 0
G2-BAS01 SEND & ASSIGN GATE 3 PRELIMINARY BASELINE A A HLUN ANAL G2-RISKMAN PR_SS 0
G2-ALS013 SITE EVALUATION A A JFWE UNAS G2-ALL03 PR_SS 0
G2-PGAT PRELIMINARY GEOTECH ASSESSMENT A A DRTH GWAS G2-ALL03 PR_FS 2
G2-DEDCE01 PR_FS 2
G2-SCOPE SCOPING MEETING A A GEGR UNAS G2-ALL03 PR_FS 2
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 2 of 9
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:22:59 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046601
EATONTON PRIMARY
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
5/30/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046601
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

G2-CEDESMET PR_FS 0
G2-DEDCE01 PR_FS 2
G2-DEDCE02 CONCEPTUAL DESIGN PLAN DWG A A RPRI UNAS G2-DEDCE01 PR_FS 0
G2-SCOPE PR_FS 2
G2-EECRL01 CONCEPTUAL PCA SHORT CIRCUIT STUDY A A UNAS UNAS G2-CEDESMET PR_FS 2
G2-SCOPE PR_FS 2
ALS01 PROPERTY OWNER NOTIFICATION (NOT NEEDED) A A JFWE UNAS REPE2 PR_FS 0
EQPT MATERIALS LOE S S DEDRQN PR_SS 0
PEGWO PR_SS 0
G3-GATE3 GATE 3 ENGINEERING PHASE S S HLUN ANAL REPE2 PR_SS 0
PEGWO WORK ORDER (CREATE / UNSUSPEND) S S HLUN SUBA HPB01 PR_FS 5
REPE2 SET UP PRE-ENGINEERING CONFERENCE S S HLUN ANAL 0 0
ALS02 FIELD ENGINEERING S S JFWE WDKN ALS01 PR_FS 0
G2-CESTRFDN CONCEPTUAL CIVIL FOUNDATION REVIEW A A DRTH GWAS G2-DEDCE02 PR_SS 0
G2-PGAT PR_FS 2
G2-CEOILCON PRELIMINARY OIL CONTAINMENT ASSESSMENT A A DRTH CASH G2-CESTRFDN PR_SS 2
G2-EECRL02 CONCEPTUAL PCA RELAY STUDY A A UNAS UNAS G2-EECRL01 PR_FS 0
BAS01 SEND & ASSIGN COMMITTED BASELINE S S HLUN ANAL REPE2 PR_FS 10
CULT01 CULTURAL RESOURCES ASSESSMENT S S JJCA KKOS PEGWO PR_FS 10
DED01 PHYSICAL ENGINEERING S S RACB BPEP REPE2 PR_FS 10
DEDRQN REQUISITION PHYSICAL NON-STOCK MATERIAL S S RACB BPEP DED01 PR_SS 0
EECSK PROTECTION & CONTROL PACKAGE S S RACB X2BP REPE2 PR_FS 10
ENVR01 ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT S S JJCA DMRI ALS01 PR_FS 5
PEGWO PR_FS 10
G2-EECEPOV CONCEPTUAL P&C RELAY OVERVIEW A A SHAS UNAS G2-EECRL01 PR_FS 3
G2-EECRL02 PR_SS 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 3 of 9
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:22:59 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046601
EATONTON PRIMARY
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
5/30/2025 ( Scheduled )
, 
Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046601
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

GEOTECH GEOTECH S S DRTH GWAS ALS01 PR_FS 10
PEGWO PR_FS 0
TSTT01 TELECOM REVIEW S S INFO ATHA PEGWO PR_FS 10
G2-DEDCIE CIVIL ESTIMATING A A RPRI JEHE G2-CEOILCON PR_FS 0
G2-CESTRFDN PR_FS 0
G2-DEDTEAMS UPDATE TEAMS MATERIAL AND LABOR- PHYISCAL A A RPRI UNAS G2-CEOILCON PR_FS 0
G2-CESTRFDN PR_FS 0
G2-DEDCE02 PR_FS 2
ALS03 OFFICE ENGINEERING S S JFWE WDKN ALS02 PR_FS 0
ENVR01S SUBSTATION SAMPLING S S CCOL NLHU DED01 PR_SS 5
G2-EECEP01 CONCEPTUAL CONTROL DESIGN A A SHAS UNAS G2-EECEPOV PR_FS 0
G2-EECRL02 PR_FS 0
G2-SCOPE PR_FS 2
G2-DEDQAEST QA PHYSICAL ESTIMATE A A RPRI UNAS G2-DEDCIE PR_FS 0
G2-DEDTEAMS PR_FS 0
ALS05 DESIGN GRADING S S DRTH NFDY ALS03 PR_FS 0
ENVR01 PR_FS 5
REPE2 PR_FS 10
GTSWR WORK REQUEST SUBMITTAL S S UNAS UNAS REPE2 PR_FS 25
G2-EECEPQA CONCEPTUAL CONTROL DESIGN REVIEW A A SHAS UNAS G2-EECEP01 PR_FS 0
G2-DEDSFED SHAREHOLDER FEEDBACK IMPLEMENTATION A A RPRI UNAS G2-DEDQAEST PR_FS 5
CECONTDE OIL CONTAINMENT DESIGN ENGINEERING S S DRTH RFIS CESTRFDN PR_SS 0
CESTRFDN CIVIL STRUCTURE REVIEW & FOUNDATION DESIGN S S DRTH GWAS DED01 PR_SS 10
GEOTECH PR_FS 2
G2-EECEP02 CONCEPTUAL CONTROL DESIGN TRANSMITTAL A A SHAS UNAS G2-EECEPQA PR_FS 0
G2-EECTEAMS UPDATE TEAMS MATERIAL AND LABOR - CONTROL A A SHAS UNAS G2-EECEPQA PR_FS 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 4 of 9
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:22:59 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046601
EATONTON PRIMARY
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
5/30/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046601
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

G2-GTSRVW CONCEPTUAL TEST REVIEW A A UNAS UNAS G2-EECEP02 PR_FS 2
FCLNOI STORMWATER PLAN NOI S S GEGI GEGI ALS05 PR_FS 4
PEERVW PEER REVIEW S S RACB BPEP DED01 PR_FS 0
EECSKQC P&C QUALITY CONTROL S S PCAS UNAS EECSK PR_FS 5
DEDQA PHYSICAL ENGINEERING QA S S RACB BPEP ALS05 PR_FS 0
CECONTDE PR_FS 0
CESTRFDN PR_FS 0
DED01 PR_FS 0
PEERVW PR_FS 0
DED02 TRANSMIT PHYSICAL ENGINEERING S S RACB BPEP DEDQA PR_FS 0
G3-GATE3 PR_FF 0
DEDSF SEND DRAWINGS TO SHOP FAB S S RACB BPEP DED02 PR_SS 0
G4-GATE4 GATE 4 CONSTRUCTION PHASE S S HLUN ANAL FCS02 PR_SS 0
GCS01 PR_SS 0
GCSEI02 PR_SS 0
REPE3 PR_SS 0
REPE3 SET UP PRE-CONSTRUCTION CONFERENCE S S HLUN ANAL CULT01 PR_FS 0
DED02 PR_FS 0
EECPT PRELIMINARY TRANSMITTAL S S RACB X2BP EECSKQC PR_FS 1
FCS01 BID GRADING S S MSMI DED02 PR_FS 5
REPE2 PR_FS 20
EEC01 CONTROL ENGINEERING INDOOR S S RACB X2BP DED01 PR_SS 15
EECPT PR_FS 0
EECSK PR_FS 0
EECSKQC PR_FS 5
TSTT01 PR_FS 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 5 of 9
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:22:59 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046601
EATONTON PRIMARY
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
5/30/2025 ( Scheduled )
, 
Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046601
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

EECRQN REQUISITION CONTROL NON-STOCK MATERIAL S S RACB X2BP EEC01 PR_SS 5
EECQA CONTROL ENGINEERING QA INDOOR S S RACB X2BP EEC01 PR_FS 0
EEC02 TRANSMIT CONTROL ENGINEERING INDOOR S S RACB X2BP EECQA PR_FS 0
G3-GATE3 PR_FF 0
EECRL01 DESIGN RELAY SETTINGS S S UNAS UNAS EEC02 PR_FS 1
GCW02 SHOP WIRING S S BSMC UNAS EEC02 PR_FS 8
EECRQN PR_FS 20
FCS02 SUBSTATION GRADING S S MSMI FCLNOI PR_FS 4
FCS01 PR_FS 16
EECRLQC DESIGN RELAY SETTINGS QC S S UNAS UNAS EECRL01 PR_FS 0
GTSPQA PANEL QUALITY ASSURANCE S S TGUA UNAS GCW02 PR_FS 12.5
MAJ_EQPT - S RECEIVE MAJOR EQUIPMENT (Switch) S S HLUN ANAL EQPT PR_FF 0
PEGWO PR_FS 5
SHIPPING MATERIAL LONGEST LEAD ITEM S S HLUN ANAL DEDRQN PR_SS 5
EQPT PR_FF 0
EECRL02 TRANSMIT RELAY SETTINGS S S UNAS UNAS EECRLQC PR_FS 0
G3-GATE3 PR_FF 0
GTSREV TEST REVIEW S S UNAS UNAS EEC02 PR_FS 10
EECRL02 PR_FS 0
EEC03 TRANSMITTAL OF LOGIC DIAGRAM S S RACB X2BP EECRL02 PR_FS 1
G3-GATE3 PR_FF 0
EEC11 CONTROL ENGINEERING OUTDOOR S S RACB X2BP EEC01 PR_SS 0
MAJ_EQPT - 
S
PR_FS 0
MCS01 RECEIVE MATERIAL S S HLUN ANAL DEDSF PR_FS 0
EQPT PR_FF 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 6 of 9
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:22:59 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046601
EATONTON PRIMARY
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
5/30/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046601
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

GCS01 PR_SS -40
SHIPPING PR_FS 0
GCS01 SUBSTATION CONSTRUCTION PRE-WORK (
)
S S UNAS UNAS DED02 PR_FS 32
DEDSF PR_FS 38.4
EEC02 PR_FS 24
ENVR01S PR_FS 12.8
FCS02 PR_FS 5
MAJ_EQPT - 
S
PR_FS 4
REPE3 PR_FS 6.4
EECQAO CONTROL ENGINEERING QA OUTDOOR S S RACB X2BP EEC11 PR_FS 0
EEC12 TRANSMIT CONTROL ENGINEERING OUTDOOR S S RACB X2BP EECQAO PR_FS 0
G3-GATE3 PR_FF 0
EEGREV REVIEW TEAMS ESTIMATE (LABOR/MATERIAL) S S SEHI SUBA BAS01 PR_FS 0
DED02 PR_FS 10
EEC02 PR_FS 10
EEC12 PR_FS 1
GCSCH INSTALL CONTROL HOUSE (NOT NEEDED) A A SCOT UNAS 0 0
GCSEI02 INSTALL EQUIPMENT S S JEWD UNAS GCS01 PR_SS 10
OUTAGE SUB OUTAGE - CAPITAL S S HLUN ANAL GCS01 PR_SS 0
GCW01 FIELD WIRING S S BSMC CCOL GCS01 PR_SS 20
PHYSEC PHYSICAL SECURITY INTEGRATOR A A MCMA MCMA 0 0
TSFT SUB FIBER TERMINATION A A INFO JGCR 0 0
TSTT02 CIRCUIT INSTALLATION A A INFO ATHA 0 0
GTS01 TEST & CUT-IN (LOE) S S GTS01-A1 PR_SS 0
GTS01-A1 TEST & CUT-IN (Engineer 1) S S UNAS UNAS EEC03 PR_FS 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 7 of 9
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:22:59 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046601
EATONTON PRIMARY
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
5/30/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046601
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

GCW01 PR_SS 0
GTSPQA PR_FS 6.25
GTSREV PR_FS 10
GTSWR PR_FS 0
GTS01-A2 TEST & CUT-IN (Engineer 2) S S UNAS UNAS EEC03 PR_FS 0
GCW01 PR_SS 0
GTS01 PR_FF 0
GTSPQA PR_FS 6.25
GTSREV PR_FS 10
GTSWR PR_FS 0
DED03 FINAL SUBSTATION INSPECTION S S RACB BPEP GCS01 PR_FS 0
GTS01-A1 PR_FF -1
GTS01-A2 PR_FF -1
DEDAB AS-BUILT PHYSICAL ENGINEERING S S RACB BPEP DED03 PR_SS 0
G5-GATE5 GATE 5 CLOSEOUT PHASE S S HLUN ANAL HPB02 PR_SS 0
HPB02 REQUIRED FINISH / IN-SERVICE DATE S S HLUN ANAL DED03 PR_FF 0
DESC PR_FF 0
FCS02 PR_FS 0
G4-GATE4 PR_FF 0
GCS01 PR_FS 0
GCSEI02 PR_FS 0
GCW01 PR_FS 0
GTS01-A1 PR_FS 0
GTS01-A2 PR_FS 0
GTSFC PR_FS 0
MCS01 PR_FS 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 8 of 9
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:22:59 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046601
EATONTON PRIMARY
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
5/30/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046601
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

*** End of Report ***
OUTAGE PR_FS 0
REPE3 PR_FS 0
GTSFC TEST FIELD CHANGES S S UNAS UNAS GTS01-A1 PR_FS 0
GTS01-A2 PR_FS 0
EECRL03 PROMOTE PENDING RELAY SETTINGS S S UNAS UNAS GTS01-A1 PR_FS 10
GTS01-A2 PR_FS 5
HPB02 PR_FS 0
EECAB AS-BUILT CONTROL ENGINEERING S S RACB X2BP GTSFC PR_FS 5
EECFCR CONTROL ENGINEERING FIELD CHANGE REVIEW S S RACB X2BP EECAB PR_SS 10
WKOC WORK ORDER CLOSE S S SEHI SUBA DEDAB PR_FS 0
DESC PR_FF 0
EECAB PR_FS 0
EECFCR PR_FS 0
EECRL03 PR_FS 0
G5-GATE5 PR_FF 0
HPB02 PR_FS 60
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 9 of 9
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:22:59 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046601
EATONTON PRIMARY
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
5/30/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046601
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

Activity
Id
Activity
Description
Activity
Start
S/A Activity
Finish
S/A Supv Eng
/For
Org
Dur
Rem
Dur
Float
Total
Predecessor
Activity
Pred
Type
Lag
Days
DESC EATONTON PRIMARY - OASIS 230KV A S MDPE ANAL G1-SCHEDULE PR_SS 0
HPB01 PR_SS 0
G1-GATE1 GATE 1 INITIATION PHASE A A CRYJ ANAL G1-SCHEDULE PR_SS 0
G1-GATE12 SUBMIT GATE 1 TRANSITION (1-20) A A CRYJ ANAL G1-GATE1 PR_FF 0
G1-PRIOR PR_FS 0
G1-PRIOR VALIDATE PROJECT PRIORITIZATION (1-18) A A CRYJ ANAL G1-SCHEDULE PR_FS 0
G1-SCHEDULE INITIATE LONG RANGE PLANNING SCHEDULE (1-15) A A CRYJ ANAL 0 0
DPRTCA DPRT CONCEPT APPROVAL A A MDPE ANAL G1-SCHEDULE PR_FS 0
G2-CEDESMET PR_FS 0
G2-CONCEP GATE 2 CONCEPTUAL DESIGN PHASE A A CRYJ ANAL G2-HPB01 PR_SS 0
G2-HPB01 BUDGET APPROVAL (G2) A A CRYJ ANAL 0 0
G2-STAKE STAKEHOLDER NOTIFICATION A A CRYJ ANAL G1-GATE12 PR_FS 10
HPB01 BUDGET APPROVAL A A MDPE ANAL 0 0
DEREST DISTRIBUTION CONCEPTUAL ESTIMATE REQUEST A A MDPE ANAL DPRTCA PR_FS 0
G2-PEGWO CREATE WORK ORDER A A CRYJ LINE G2-HPB01 PR_FS 1
G2-BAS01 SEND & ASSIGN GATE 3 PRELIMINARY BASELINE A A CRYJ ANAL G2-RISKMAN PR_SS 0
G2-CEDESMET CONCEPTUAL DESIGN KICKOFF MEETING A A CRYJ ANAL G2-PEGWO PR_FS 2
G2-SCOPEPHASE PROJECT SCOPING PHASE A A CRYJ ANAL G2-STAKE PR_FS 0
G2-ALS01 PROPERTY OWNER NOTIFICATION A A JFWE UNAS G2-CEDESMET PR_FS 0
G2-ALL01 PRELIMINARY LINE SELECTION A A UNAS UNAS G2-CEDESMET PR_FS 2
G2-WOSUS WORK ORDER SUSPENSION A A CRYJ ANAL DESC PR_FF 0
G2-BAS01 PR_FS 0
G2-CONCEP PR_FF 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 1 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:00 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046604
EATONTON PRIMARY - OASIS 230KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-ATHENS
5/2/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046604
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

G2-FQQF PR_FS 0
G2-PSQA PR_FS 0
G2-RISKMAN PR_FS 0
G2-ALS02 FIELD ENGINEERING A A JFWE UNAS G2-ALS01 PR_FS 0
G2-ALL02 CONCEPTUAL/FORMAL LINE LOCATION A A DVIN UNAS G2-ALL01 PR_FS 0
G2-CEDESMET PR_FS 2
EQPT MATERIALS LOE S S CELRQN PR_SS 0
PEGWO PR_SS 0
G2-SCOPE SCOPING MEETING A A GEGR UNAS G2-ALL02 PR_FS 2
G3-GATE3 GATE 3 ENGINEERING PHASE S S MDPE ANAL REPE2 PR_SS 0
PEGWO WORK ORDER (CREATE / UNSUSPEND) S S MDPE LINE HPB01 PR_FS 5
REPE2 SET UP PRE-ENGINEERING CONFERENCE S S MDPE ANAL 0 0
G2-ALS03 OFFICE ENGINEERING A A JFWE UNAS G2-ALS02 PR_FS 0
ALS01 PROPERTY OWNER NOTIFICATION (NOT NEEDED) A A JFWE UNAS PEGWO PR_FS 0
REPE2 PR_FS 0
CULT01 CULTURAL RESOURCES ASSESSMENT S S JJCA KKOS ALS02 PR_FF 0
G2-CELDP INITIAL PROJECT CONCEPT A A GEGR GEGR G2-SCOPE PR_FS 3
ALS02 FIELD ENGINEERING S S JFWE WDKN REPE2 PR_FS 10
BAS01 SEND & ASSIGN COMMITTED BASELINE S S MDPE ANAL REPE2 PR_FS 10
CEL01 PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING S S UNAS UNAS REPE2 PR_FS 10
DEREST01 DISTRIBUTION CONCEPTUAL DESIGN ENGINEERING A A MDPE ANAL DEREST PR_FS 0
G2-ALS03B SUBMIT PLS-CADD MODEL A A JFWE UNAS G2-ALL02 PR_FS 3
G2-ALS03 PR_FS 0
DELPT01 INITIATE PERMIT S S UNAS UNAS CEL01 PR_SS 5
G2-CEL01 CONCEPTUAL DESIGN A A UNAS UNAS G2-ALS03B PR_FS 2
G2-CELDP PR_FS 2
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 2 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:00 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046604
EATONTON PRIMARY - OASIS 230KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-ATHENS
5/2/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046604
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

ENVR01 ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT S S JJCA DMRI ALS02 PR_FF 0
CONRE CONSTRUCTABLITY REVIEW S S UNAS UNAS CEL01 PR_FS 0
ALS03 OFFICE ENGINEERING S S JFWE WDKN ALS02 PR_FS 0
ALS04A PRELIMINARY DESIGN STAKING S S GASC FCAR CEL01 PR_FS 4
G2-CELRVW CONCEPTUAL DESIGN REVIEW A A UNAS UNAS G2-CEL01 PR_FS 0
G2-CFD CONCEPTUAL FOUNDATION DESIGN A A DRTH GWAS G2-CEL01 PR_FS 0
CELRVW PRELIM LINE DESIGN REVIEW S S UNAS UNAS ALS04A PR_FS 0
CEL01 PR_FS 0
CONRE PR_FS 0
DLDP DESIGN L&D PACKAGE A A UNAS UNAS CELRVW PR_FS 5
G2-CELPKT CONCEPTUAL PACKAGE TRANSMITTAL A A UNAS UNAS G2-CELRVW PR_FS 0
G2-CFD PR_FS 0
ALS03B SUBMIT PLS-CADD MODEL S S JFWE WDKN ALS03 PR_FS 0
ENVR01 PR_FS 0
DEL01 FINAL LINE ENGINEERING S S UNAS UNAS CELRVW PR_FS 0
FCL05 SOIL BORING CREW SUPPORT S S GEGI GEGI CEL01A PR_SS -4
G2-CONSFED SHAREHOLDER FEEDBACK IMPLEMENTATION A A UNAS UNAS G2-CELPKT PR_FS 2
ALS06 ENGINEERING STORMWATER PLAN S S JMIS WWAN ALS03 PR_FS 5
CEL01 PR_SS 5
ENVR01 PR_FS 5
CEL01A SOIL BORING S S MSMI DRTH ALS04A PR_FS 0
CELRVW PR_FS 5
G2-PSQA PROJECT SUPPORT QA/QC A A GEGR UNAS G2-CELPKT PR_FS 0
G2-CONSFED PR_FS 0
G2-PREOUTAGE PRELIMINARY OUTAGE COORDINATION A A CRYJ ANAL G2-CELPKT PR_FS 5
G2-CONSFED PR_FF 2
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 3 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:00 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046604
EATONTON PRIMARY - OASIS 230KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-ATHENS
5/2/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046604
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

G2-FQQF FINAL QA/QC FEEDBACK IMPLEMENTATION A A UNAS UNAS G2-CONSFED PR_FS 0
G2-PSQA PR_SS 3
G2-RISKMAN UPDATE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN A A CRYJ ANAL G2-
PREOUTAGE
PR_FS 4
CEL01B SCS - DESIGN FOUNDATIONS S S DRTH GWAS CEL01A PR_FS 0
DEL01 PR_SS 5
G3-GATE3 PR_FF 0
CEL01D APPROVE MFR. CALCULATIONS S S UNAS UNAS DLDP PR_FS 20
DESF DRILLED PIER FOUNDATION DESIGN S S DRTH GWAS CEL01A PR_FS 6.25
CEL01D PR_FS 5
DEL01 PR_FS 0
CELRQN ORDER LONG LEAD MATERIALS S S UNAS UNAS CEL01 PR_FS 0
CEL01B PR_FS 0
CEL01D PR_FS 10
DEL01 PR_FS 0
DELPT02 RECEIVE PERMIT S S UNAS UNAS DELPT01 PR_FS 40
G3-GATE3 PR_FF 0
DPFR DRILLED PIER FOUNDATION DESIGN REVIEW A A MSMI EPSH DESF PR_FS 0
SHIPPING MATERIAL LONGEST LEAD ITEM S S MDPE ANAL CELRQN PR_FS 0
EQPT PR_FF 0
CEL01C APPROVE MFR. DRAWINGS S S UNAS UNAS CELRQN PR_FS 40
DEL02 TRANSMIT LINE ENGINEERING S S UNAS UNAS CEL01C PR_FS 0
DEL01 PR_FS 0
DPFR PR_FS 0
G3-GATE3 PR_FF 0
DEREST02 DISTRIBUTION CONCEPTUAL ESTIMATE SUBMITTAL A A MDPE ANAL DEREST01 PR_FS 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 4 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:00 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046604
EATONTON PRIMARY - OASIS 230KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-ATHENS
5/2/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046604
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

FCLNOI STORMWATER PLAN NOI S S GEGI GEGI ALS06 PR_FS 16
FCL01 PR_SS -21
BIDFCL BID CLEAR R/W S S GEGI UNAS DEL02 PR_FS 10
BIDFD BID FOUNDATIONS S S MSMI EPSH CEL01B PR_FS 10
DEL02 PR_FS 10
EEGREV REVIEW TEAMS ESTIMATE (LABOR/MATERIAL) S S SEHI LINE DEL02 PR_FS 10
ALS04B CLEAR R/W STAKING S S GASC FCAR DEL01 PR_FS 8
FCL01 PR_SS -10
DISTEASE DISTRIBUTION EASEMENT A A MDPE ANAL DEREST02 PR_FS 0
DISTMAT DISTRIBUTION ORDER LONG LEAD MATERIAL A A MDPE ANAL DEREST02 PR_FS 0
DISTPERM DISTRIBUTION PERMITTING A A MDPE ANAL DEREST02 PR_FS 0
DPRTFAP DPRT/ BEST PRACTICE FINAL APPROVAL FOR DISTRIBUTION A A MDPE ANAL DEREST02 PR_FS 0
FCL01 CLEAR R/W S S GEGI UNAS BIDFCL PR_FS 10
DEL02 PR_FS 8
DELPT02 PR_FS 6.4
G4-GATE4 GATE 4 CONSTRUCTION PHASE S S MDPE ANAL FCL01 PR_SS 0
FCL03 PR_SS 0
GCL01 PR_SS 0
GCLFD PR_SS 0
OUTAGE PR_SS 0
REPE3 PR_SS 0
REPE3 SET UP PRE-CONSTRUCTION CONFERENCE S S MDPE ANAL DEL02 PR_FS 40
EEGREV PR_FS 10
MCL01 RECEIVE MATERIAL S S MDPE ANAL EQPT PR_FF 0
GCL01 PR_SS -40
SHIPPING PR_FS 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 5 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:00 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046604
EATONTON PRIMARY - OASIS 230KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-ATHENS
5/2/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046604
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

MCLFD RECEIVE ANCHOR BOLTS MATLS S S MDPE ANAL CEL01C PR_FS 0
CELRQN PR_FS 70
EQPT PR_FF 0
GCLFD PR_SS -25
ALS04C FOUNDATION STAKING S S GASC FCAR GCLFD PR_SS -10
FCL04 FOUNDATION CREW SUPPORT S S GEGI UNAS DELPT02 PR_FS 0
FCLNOI PR_FS 0
GCLFD PR_SS -4
ALS04D FINAL STAKING S S GASC FCAR GCL01 PR_SS -10
GCLFD INSTALL FOUNDATIONS S S MSMI KEWH BIDFD PR_FS 8
CEL01B PR_FS 0
DEL02 PR_FS 0
DELPT02 PR_FS 6.4
FCLNOI PR_FS 6.4
FCL03 CREW SUPPORT S S GEGI UNAS DELPT02 PR_FS 0
FCLNOI PR_FS 4
GCL01 PR_SS -5
GCL01 LINE CONSTRUCTION ( ) S S LTOW UNAS CULT01 PR_FS 0
DEL02 PR_FS 24
DELPT02 PR_FS 6.4
FCLNOI PR_FS 8
GCLFD PR_SS 0
REPE3 PR_FS 9.6
OUTAGE LINE OUTAGE - CAPITAL S S MDPE ANAL GCL01 PR_SS 0
DEL03 FINAL INSPECTION S S UNAS UNAS GCL01 PR_FF 0
GCL02 COMPLETE COUNTERPOISE (3 POLES) S S DBSH DBSH GCL01 PR_FF 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 6 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:00 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046604
EATONTON PRIMARY - OASIS 230KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-ATHENS
5/2/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046604
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

G5-GATE5 GATE 5 CLOSEOUT PHASE S S MDPE ANAL HPB02 PR_SS 0
HPB02 REQUIRED FINISH / IN-SERVICE DATE S S MDPE ANAL ALS04B PR_FS 0
ALS04C PR_FS 0
ALS04D PR_FS 0
DEL03 PR_FS 0
DESC PR_FF 0
FCL03 PR_FS 0
FCL04 PR_FS 0
FCL05 PR_FS 0
FCLNOI PR_FS 0
G4-GATE4 PR_FF 0
GCL01 PR_FS 0
GCL02 PR_FS 0
MCL01 PR_FS 0
MCLFD PR_FS 0
OUTAGE PR_FS 0
REPE3 PR_FS 0
ALS02F AS-BUILT FIELD ENGINEERING S S GASC FCAR DEL03 PR_FS 4
DISTJPS DISTRIBUTION JOB PACKAGE SUBMITTAL A A MDPE ANAL DISTEASE PR_FS 0
DISTPERM PR_FS 0
DPRTFAP PR_FS 0
DISTOHC DISTRIBUTION OVERHEAD CONSTRUCTION A A MDPE ANAL DISTJPS PR_FS 0
DISTUDC DISTRIBUTION UNDERGROUND CONSTRUCTION A A MDPE ANAL DISTJPS PR_FS 0
DISTCC DISTRIBUTION CONSTRUCTION COMPLETION A A MDPE ANAL DISTOHC PR_FS 0
DISTUDC PR_FS 0
DISTWOC DISTRIBUTION FIELD CLOSE A A MDPE ANAL DISTCC PR_FS 40
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 7 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:00 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046604
EATONTON PRIMARY - OASIS 230KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-ATHENS
5/2/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046604
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

*** End of Report ***
ALS03F AS-BUILT OFFICE ENGINEERING S S GASC FCAR ALS02F PR_FS 0
DELDOC ENGINEERING JOB CLOSE S S UNAS UNAS ALS02F PR_FS 0
ALS03F PR_SS 10
DELWOC WORK ORDER CLOSE S S SEHI LINE DELDOC PR_FS 0
DESC PR_FF 0
G5-GATE5 PR_FF 0
HPB02 PR_FS 60
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 8 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:00 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046604
EATONTON PRIMARY - OASIS 230KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-ATHENS
5/2/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046604
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

Activity
Id
Activity
Description
Activity
Start
S/A Activity
Finish
S/A Supv Eng
/For
Org
Dur
Rem
Dur
Float
Total
Predecessor
Activity
Pred
Type
Lag
Days
DESC BRANCH - OASIS 230KV A S MDPE ANAL G1-SCHEDULE PR_SS 0
HPB01 PR_SS 0
G1-GATE1 GATE 1 INITIATION PHASE A A CRYJ ANAL G1-SCHEDULE PR_SS 0
G1-GATE12 SUBMIT GATE 1 TRANSITION (1-20) A A CRYJ ANAL G1-GATE1 PR_FF 0
G1-PRIOR PR_FS 0
G1-PRIOR VALIDATE PROJECT PRIORITIZATION (1-18) A A CRYJ ANAL G1-SCHEDULE PR_FS 0
G1-SCHEDULE INITIATE LONG RANGE PLANNING SCHEDULE (1-15) A A CRYJ ANAL 0 0
DPRTCA DPRT CONCEPT APPROVAL A A MDPE ANAL G1-SCHEDULE PR_FS 0
G2-CEDESMET PR_FS 0
G2-CONCEP GATE 2 CONCEPTUAL DESIGN PHASE A A CRYJ ANAL G2-HPB01 PR_SS 0
G2-HPB01 BUDGET APPROVAL (G2) A A CRYJ ANAL 0 0
G2-STAKE STAKEHOLDER NOTIFICATION A A CRYJ ANAL G1-GATE12 PR_FS 10
HPB01 BUDGET APPROVAL A A MDPE ANAL 0 0
DEREST DISTRIBUTION CONCEPTUAL ESTIMATE REQUEST A A MDPE ANAL DPRTCA PR_FS 0
G2-PEGWO CREATE WORK ORDER A A CRYJ LINE G2-HPB01 PR_FS 1
G2-CEDESMET CONCEPTUAL DESIGN KICKOFF MEETING A A CRYJ ANAL G2-PEGWO PR_FS 2
G2-SCOPEPHASE PROJECT SCOPING PHASE A A CRYJ ANAL G2-STAKE PR_FS 0
G2-ALS01 PROPERTY OWNER NOTIFICATION A A JFWE UNAS G2-CEDESMET PR_FS 0
G2-ALL01 PRELIMINARY LINE SELECTION A A UNAS UNAS G2-CEDESMET PR_FS 2
G2-BAS01 SEND & ASSIGN GATE 3 PRELIMINARY BASELINE A A CRYJ ANAL G2-RISKMAN PR_SS 0
G2-WOSUS WORK ORDER SUSPENSION A A CRYJ ANAL DESC PR_FF 0
G2-BAS01 PR_FS 0
G2-CONCEP PR_FF 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 1 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:01 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046605
BRANCH - OASIS 230KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-ATHENS
5/2/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046605
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

G2-FQQF PR_FS 0
G2-PSQA PR_FS 0
G2-RISKMAN PR_FS 0
G2-ALS02 FIELD ENGINEERING A A JFWE UNAS G2-ALS01 PR_FS 0
G2-ALL02 CONCEPTUAL/FORMAL LINE LOCATION A A DVIN UNAS G2-ALL01 PR_FS 0
G2-CEDESMET PR_FS 2
EQPT MATERIALS LOE S S CELRQN PR_SS 0
PEGWO PR_SS 0
G2-SCOPE SCOPING MEETING A A GEGR UNAS G2-ALL02 PR_FS 2
G3-GATE3 GATE 3 ENGINEERING PHASE S S MDPE ANAL REPE2 PR_SS 0
PEGWO WORK ORDER (CREATE / UNSUSPEND) S S MDPE LINE HPB01 PR_FS 5
REPE2 SET UP PRE-ENGINEERING CONFERENCE S S MDPE ANAL 0 0
G2-ALS03 OFFICE ENGINEERING A A JFWE UNAS G2-ALS02 PR_FS 0
ALS01 PROPERTY OWNER NOTIFICATION (NOT NEEDED) A A JFWE UNAS PEGWO PR_FS 0
REPE2 PR_FS 0
CULT01 CULTURAL RESOURCES ASSESSMENT S S JJCA KKOS ALS02 PR_FF 0
ENVR01 ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT S S JJCA DMRI ALS02 PR_FF 0
G2-CELDP INITIAL PROJECT CONCEPT A A GEGR GEGR G2-SCOPE PR_FS 3
ALS02 FIELD ENGINEERING S S JFWE WDKN REPE2 PR_FS 10
BAS01 SEND & ASSIGN COMMITTED BASELINE S S MDPE ANAL REPE2 PR_FS 10
CEL01 PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING S S UNAS UNAS REPE2 PR_FS 10
DEREST01 DISTRIBUTION CONCEPTUAL DESIGN ENGINEERING A A MDPE ANAL DEREST PR_FS 0
G2-ALS03B SUBMIT PLS-CADD MODEL A A JFWE UNAS G2-ALL02 PR_FS 3
G2-ALS03 PR_FS 0
DELPT01 INITIATE PERMIT S S UNAS UNAS CEL01 PR_SS 5
G2-CEL01 CONCEPTUAL DESIGN A A UNAS UNAS G2-ALS03B PR_FS 2
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 2 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:01 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046605
BRANCH - OASIS 230KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-ATHENS
5/2/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046605
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

G2-CELDP PR_FS 2
CONRE CONSTRUCTABLITY REVIEW S S UNAS UNAS CEL01 PR_FS 0
ALS03 OFFICE ENGINEERING S S JFWE WDKN ALS02 PR_FS 0
ALS04A PRELIMINARY DESIGN STAKING S S GASC FCAR CEL01 PR_FS 4
G2-CELRVW CONCEPTUAL DESIGN REVIEW A A UNAS UNAS G2-CEL01 PR_FS 0
G2-CFD CONCEPTUAL FOUNDATION DESIGN A A DRTH GWAS G2-CEL01 PR_FS 0
CELRVW PRELIM LINE DESIGN REVIEW S S UNAS UNAS ALS04A PR_FS 0
CEL01 PR_FS 0
CONRE PR_FS 0
G2-CELPKT CONCEPTUAL PACKAGE TRANSMITTAL A A UNAS UNAS G2-CELRVW PR_FS 0
G2-CFD PR_FS 0
ALS03B SUBMIT PLS-CADD MODEL S S JFWE WDKN ALS03 PR_FS 0
ENVR01 PR_FS 0
DEL01 FINAL LINE ENGINEERING S S UNAS UNAS CELRVW PR_FS 0
FCL05 SOIL BORING CREW SUPPORT S S GEGI GEGI CEL01A PR_SS -4
G2-CONSFED SHAREHOLDER FEEDBACK IMPLEMENTATION A A UNAS UNAS G2-CELPKT PR_FS 2
ALS06 ENGINEERING STORMWATER PLAN S S JMIS WWAN ALS03 PR_FS 5
CEL01 PR_SS 5
ENVR01 PR_FS 5
CEL01A SOIL BORING S S MSMI DRTH ALS04A PR_FS 0
CELRVW PR_FS 5
DLDP DESIGN L&D PACKAGE S S UNAS UNAS CELRVW PR_FS 5
G2-PSQA PROJECT SUPPORT QA/QC A A GEGR UNAS G2-CELPKT PR_FS 0
G2-CONSFED PR_FS 0
G2-PREOUTAGE PRELIMINARY OUTAGE COORDINATION A A CRYJ ANAL G2-CELPKT PR_FS 5
G2-CONSFED PR_FF 2
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 3 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:01 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046605
BRANCH - OASIS 230KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-ATHENS
5/2/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046605
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

G2-FQQF FINAL QA/QC FEEDBACK IMPLEMENTATION A A UNAS UNAS G2-CONSFED PR_FS 0
G2-PSQA PR_SS 3
G2-RISKMAN UPDATE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN A A CRYJ ANAL G2-
PREOUTAGE
PR_FS 4
CEL01B SCS - DESIGN FOUNDATIONS S S DRTH GWAS CEL01A PR_FS 0
DEL01 PR_SS 5
G3-GATE3 PR_FF 0
CEL01D APPROVE MFR. CALCULATIONS S S UNAS UNAS DLDP PR_FS 20
DELPT02 RECEIVE PERMIT S S UNAS UNAS DELPT01 PR_FS 40
G3-GATE3 PR_FF 0
DESF DRILLED PIER FOUNDATION DESIGN S S DRTH GWAS CEL01A PR_FS 6.25
CEL01D PR_FS 5
DEL01 PR_FS 0
CELRQN ORDER LONG LEAD MATERIALS S S UNAS UNAS CEL01 PR_FS 0
CEL01B PR_FS 0
CEL01D PR_FS 10
DEL01 PR_FS 0
DPFR DRILLED PIER FOUNDATION DESIGN REVIEW S S MSMI EPSH DESF PR_FS 0
SHIPPING MATERIAL LONGEST LEAD ITEM S S MDPE ANAL CELRQN PR_FS 0
EQPT PR_FF 0
CEL01C APPROVE MFR. DRAWINGS S S UNAS UNAS CELRQN PR_FS 40
DEREST02 DISTRIBUTION CONCEPTUAL ESTIMATE SUBMITTAL A A MDPE ANAL DEREST01 PR_FS 0
DEL02 TRANSMIT LINE ENGINEERING S S UNAS UNAS CEL01C PR_FS 0
DEL01 PR_FS 0
DPFR PR_FS 0
G3-GATE3 PR_FF 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 4 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:01 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046605
BRANCH - OASIS 230KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-ATHENS
5/2/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046605
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

FCLNOI STORMWATER PLAN NOI S S GEGI GEGI ALS06 PR_FS 16
FCL01 PR_SS -21
BIDFCL BID CLEAR R/W S S GEGI UNAS DEL02 PR_FS 10
BIDFD BID FOUNDATIONS S S MSMI EPSH CEL01B PR_FS 10
DEL02 PR_FS 10
EEGREV REVIEW TEAMS ESTIMATE (LABOR/MATERIAL) S S SEHI LINE DEL02 PR_FS 10
DISTEASE DISTRIBUTION EASEMENT A A MDPE ANAL DEREST02 PR_FS 0
DISTMAT DISTRIBUTION ORDER LONG LEAD MATERIAL A A MDPE ANAL DEREST02 PR_FS 0
DISTPERM DISTRIBUTION PERMITTING A A MDPE ANAL DEREST02 PR_FS 0
DPRTFAP DPRT/ BEST PRACTICE FINAL APPROVAL FOR DISTRIBUTION A A MDPE ANAL DEREST02 PR_FS 0
ALS04B CLEAR R/W STAKING S S GASC FCAR DEL01 PR_FS 8
FCL01 PR_SS -10
FCL01 CLEAR R/W S S GEGI UNAS BIDFCL PR_FS 10
DEL02 PR_FS 8
DELPT02 PR_FS 6.4
G4-GATE4 GATE 4 CONSTRUCTION PHASE S S MDPE ANAL FCL01 PR_SS 0
FCL03 PR_SS 0
GCL01 PR_SS 0
GCLFD PR_SS 0
OUTAGE PR_SS 0
REPE3 PR_SS 0
REPE3 SET UP PRE-CONSTRUCTION CONFERENCE S S MDPE ANAL DEL02 PR_FS 40
EEGREV PR_FS 10
MCL01 RECEIVE MATERIAL S S MDPE ANAL EQPT PR_FF 0
GCL01 PR_SS -40
SHIPPING PR_FS 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 5 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:01 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046605
BRANCH - OASIS 230KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-ATHENS
5/2/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046605
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

MCLFD RECEIVE ANCHOR BOLTS MATLS S S MDPE ANAL CEL01C PR_FS 0
CELRQN PR_FS 70
EQPT PR_FF 0
GCLFD PR_SS -25
ALS04C FOUNDATION STAKING S S GASC FCAR GCLFD PR_SS -10
FCL04 FOUNDATION CREW SUPPORT S S GEGI UNAS DELPT02 PR_FS 0
FCLNOI PR_FS 0
GCLFD PR_SS -4
ALS04D FINAL STAKING S S GASC FCAR GCL01 PR_SS -10
GCLFD INSTALL FOUNDATIONS S S MSMI KEWH BIDFD PR_FS 8
CEL01B PR_FS 0
DEL02 PR_FS 0
DELPT02 PR_FS 6.4
FCLNOI PR_FS 6.4
FCL03 CREW SUPPORT S S GEGI UNAS DELPT02 PR_FS 0
FCLNOI PR_FS 4
GCL01 PR_SS -5
GCL01 LINE CONSTRUCTION ( ) S S LBDA UNAS CULT01 PR_FS 0
DEL02 PR_FS 24
DELPT02 PR_FS 6.4
FCLNOI PR_FS 8
GCLFD PR_SS 0
REPE3 PR_FS 9.6
OUTAGE LINE OUTAGE - CAPITAL S S MDPE ANAL GCL01 PR_SS 0
DEL03 FINAL INSPECTION S S UNAS UNAS GCL01 PR_FF 0
GCL02 COMPLETE COUNTERPOISE (3 POLES) S S DBSH DBSH GCL01 PR_FF 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 6 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:01 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046605
BRANCH - OASIS 230KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-ATHENS
5/2/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046605
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

G5-GATE5 GATE 5 CLOSEOUT PHASE S S MDPE ANAL HPB02 PR_SS 0
HPB02 REQUIRED FINISH / IN-SERVICE DATE S S MDPE ANAL ALS04B PR_FS 0
ALS04C PR_FS 0
ALS04D PR_FS 0
DEL03 PR_FS 0
DESC PR_FF 0
FCL03 PR_FS 0
FCL04 PR_FS 0
FCL05 PR_FS 0
FCLNOI PR_FS 0
G4-GATE4 PR_FF 0
GCL01 PR_FS 0
GCL02 PR_FS 0
MCL01 PR_FS 0
MCLFD PR_FS 0
OUTAGE PR_FS 0
REPE3 PR_FS 0
ALS02F AS-BUILT FIELD ENGINEERING S S GASC FCAR DEL03 PR_FS 4
DISTJPS DISTRIBUTION JOB PACKAGE SUBMITTAL A A MDPE ANAL DISTEASE PR_FS 0
DISTPERM PR_FS 0
DPRTFAP PR_FS 0
DISTOHC DISTRIBUTION OVERHEAD CONSTRUCTION A A MDPE ANAL DISTJPS PR_FS 0
DISTUDC DISTRIBUTION UNDERGROUND CONSTRUCTION A A MDPE ANAL DISTJPS PR_FS 0
DISTCC DISTRIBUTION CONSTRUCTION COMPLETION A A MDPE ANAL DISTOHC PR_FS 0
DISTUDC PR_FS 0
DISTWOC DISTRIBUTION FIELD CLOSE A A MDPE ANAL DISTCC PR_FS 40
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 7 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:01 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046605
BRANCH - OASIS 230KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-ATHENS
5/2/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046605
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

*** End of Report ***
ALS03F AS-BUILT OFFICE ENGINEERING S S GASC FCAR ALS02F PR_FS 0
DELDOC ENGINEERING JOB CLOSE S S UNAS UNAS ALS02F PR_FS 0
ALS03F PR_SS 10
DELWOC WORK ORDER CLOSE S S SEHI LINE DELDOC PR_FS 0
DESC PR_FF 0
G5-GATE5 PR_FF 0
HPB02 PR_FS 60
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 8 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:01 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046605
BRANCH - OASIS 230KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-ATHENS
5/2/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046605
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

Activity
Id
Activity
Description
Activity
Start
S/A Activity
Finish
S/A Supv Eng
/For
Org
Dur
Rem
Dur
Float
Total
Predecessor
Activity
Pred
Type
Lag
Days
DESC EATONTON PRIMARY 190442 - RAYONIER 46 KV A S MDPE ANAL G1-SCHEDULE PR_SS 0
HPB01 PR_SS 0
G1-GATE1 GATE 1 INITIATION PHASE A A CRYJ ANAL G1-SCHEDULE PR_SS 0
G1-GATE12 SUBMIT GATE 1 TRANSITION (1-20) A A CRYJ ANAL G1-GATE1 PR_FF 0
G1-PRIOR PR_FS 0
G1-PRIOR VALIDATE PROJECT PRIORITIZATION (1-18) A A CRYJ ANAL G1-SCHEDULE PR_FS 0
G1-SCHEDULE INITIATE LONG RANGE PLANNING SCHEDULE (1-15) A A CRYJ ANAL 0 0
SHIPPING MATERIAL LONGEST LEAD ITEM A S MDPE ANAL CELRQN PR_FS 0
EQPT PR_FF 0
G2-ALS01 PROPERTY OWNER NOTIFICATION A A JFWE UNAS G2-CEDESMET PR_FS 0
G2-CEDESMET CONCEPTUAL DESIGN KICKOFF MEETING A A CRYJ ANAL G2-PEGWO PR_FS 2
G2-CONCEP GATE 2 CONCEPTUAL DESIGN PHASE A A CRYJ ANAL G2-HPB01 PR_SS 0
G2-HPB01 BUDGET APPROVAL (G2) A A CRYJ ANAL 0 0
G2-PREOUTAGE PRELIMINARY OUTAGE COORDINATION A A CRYJ ANAL G2-CELPKT PR_FS 5
G2-CONSFED PR_FF 2
G2-RISKMAN UPDATE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN A A CRYJ ANAL G2-
PREOUTAGE
PR_FS 4
G2-SCOPEPHASE PROJECT SCOPING PHASE A A CRYJ ANAL G2-STAKE PR_FS 0
G2-STAKE STAKEHOLDER NOTIFICATION A A CRYJ ANAL G1-GATE12 PR_FS 10
HPB01 BUDGET APPROVAL A A MDPE ANAL 0 0
G2-ALL01 PRELIMINARY LINE SELECTION A A UNAS UNAS G2-CEDESMET PR_FS 2
G2-PEGWO CREATE WORK ORDER A A CRYJ LINE G2-HPB01 PR_FS 1
DPRTCA DPRT CONCEPT APPROVAL A A MDPE ANAL G1-SCHEDULE PR_FS 0
G2-CEDESMET PR_FS 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 1 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:03 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046606
EATONTON PRIMARY 190442 - RAYONIER 46 KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
11/14/2024 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046606
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

G2-ALS02 FIELD ENGINEERING A A JFWE UNAS G2-ALS01 PR_FS 0
G2-BAS01 SEND & ASSIGN GATE 3 PRELIMINARY BASELINE A A CRYJ ANAL G2-RISKMAN PR_SS 0
DEREST DISTRIBUTION CONCEPTUAL ESTIMATE REQUEST A A MDPE ANAL DPRTCA PR_FS 0
G2-ALL02 CONCEPTUAL/FORMAL LINE LOCATION A A DVIN UNAS G2-ALL01 PR_FS 0
G2-CEDESMET PR_FS 2
G2-SCOPE SCOPING MEETING A A GEGR UNAS G2-ALL02 PR_FS 2
G2-ALS03 OFFICE ENGINEERING A A JFWE UNAS G2-ALS02 PR_FS 0
G2-CELDP INITIAL PROJECT CONCEPT A A GEGR GEGR G2-SCOPE PR_FS 3
EQPT MATERIALS LOE S S CELRQN PR_SS 0
PEGWO PR_SS 0
G3-GATE3 GATE 3 ENGINEERING PHASE S S MDPE ANAL REPE2 PR_SS 0
PEGWO WORK ORDER (CREATE / UNSUSPEND) S S MDPE LINE HPB01 PR_FS 5
REPE2 SET UP PRE-ENGINEERING CONFERENCE S S MDPE ANAL 0 0
ALS01 PROPERTY OWNER NOTIFICATION (NOT NEEDED) A A JFWE UNAS PEGWO PR_FS 0
REPE2 PR_FS 0
CULT01 CULTURAL RESOURCES ASSESSMENT S S JJCA KKOS ALS02 PR_FF 0
ENVR01 ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT S S JJCA DMRI ALS02 PR_FF 0
G2-ALS03B SUBMIT PLS-CADD MODEL A A JFWE UNAS G2-ALL02 PR_FS 3
G2-ALS03 PR_FS 0
G2-CEL01 CONCEPTUAL DESIGN A A UNAS UNAS G2-ALS03B PR_FS 2
G2-CELDP PR_FS 2
ALS02 FIELD ENGINEERING S S JFWE WDKN REPE2 PR_FS 10
BAS01 SEND & ASSIGN COMMITTED BASELINE S S MDPE ANAL REPE2 PR_FS 10
CEL01 PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING S S UNAS UNAS REPE2 PR_FS 10
DELPT01 INITIATE PERMIT S S UNAS UNAS CEL01 PR_SS 5
DEREST01 DISTRIBUTION CONCEPTUAL DESIGN ENGINEERING A A MDPE ANAL DEREST PR_FS 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 2 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:03 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046606
EATONTON PRIMARY 190442 - RAYONIER 46 KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
11/14/2024 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046606
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

G2-CELRVW CONCEPTUAL DESIGN REVIEW A A UNAS UNAS G2-CEL01 PR_FS 0
G2-CFD CONCEPTUAL FOUNDATION DESIGN A A DRTH GWAS G2-CEL01 PR_FS 0
CONRE CONSTRUCTABLITY REVIEW S S UNAS UNAS CEL01 PR_FS 0
ALS04A PRELIMINARY DESIGN STAKING S S GASC FCAR CEL01 PR_FS 4
G2-CELPKT CONCEPTUAL PACKAGE TRANSMITTAL A A UNAS UNAS G2-CELRVW PR_FS 0
G2-CFD PR_FS 0
ALS03 OFFICE ENGINEERING S S JFWE WDKN ALS02 PR_FS 6.25
CELRVW PRELIM LINE DESIGN REVIEW S S UNAS UNAS ALS04A PR_FS 0
CEL01 PR_FS 0
CONRE PR_FS 0
G2-CONSFED SHAREHOLDER FEEDBACK IMPLEMENTATION A A UNAS UNAS G2-CELPKT PR_FS 2
DEL01 FINAL LINE ENGINEERING S S UNAS UNAS CELRVW PR_FS 0
FCL05 SOIL BORING CREW SUPPORT S S GEGI GEGI CEL01A PR_SS -4
G2-PSQA PROJECT SUPPORT QA/QC A A GEGR UNAS G2-CELPKT PR_FS 0
G2-CONSFED PR_FS 0
G2-FQQF FINAL QA/QC FEEDBACK IMPLEMENTATION A A UNAS UNAS G2-CONSFED PR_FS 0
G2-PSQA PR_SS 3
CEL01A SOIL BORING S S MSMI DRTH ALS04A PR_FS 0
CELRVW PR_FS 5
DLDP DESIGN L&D PACKAGE S S UNAS UNAS CELRVW PR_FS 5
ALS03B SUBMIT PLS-CADD MODEL S S JFWE WDKN ALS03 PR_FS 5
ENVR01 PR_FS 0
ALS06 ENGINEERING STORMWATER PLAN S S JMIS WWAN ALS03 PR_FS 5
CEL01 PR_SS 5
ENVR01 PR_FS 5
G2-WOSUS WORK ORDER SUSPENSION A A CRYJ ANAL DESC PR_FF 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 3 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:03 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046606
EATONTON PRIMARY 190442 - RAYONIER 46 KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
11/14/2024 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046606
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

G2-BAS01 PR_FS 0
G2-CONCEP PR_FF 0
G2-FQQF PR_FS 0
G2-PSQA PR_FS 0
G2-RISKMAN PR_FS 0
CEL01B SCS - DESIGN FOUNDATIONS S S DRTH GWAS CEL01A PR_FS 0
DEL01 PR_SS 5
G3-GATE3 PR_FF 0
CEL01D APPROVE MFR. CALCULATIONS S S UNAS UNAS DLDP PR_FS 20
DELPT02 RECEIVE PERMIT S S UNAS UNAS DELPT01 PR_FS 40
G3-GATE3 PR_FF 0
CELRQN ORDER LONG LEAD MATERIALS S S UNAS UNAS CEL01 PR_FS 0
CEL01B PR_FS 0
CEL01D PR_FS 5
DEL01 PR_FS 0
DESF DRILLED PIER FOUNDATION DESIGN S S DRTH GWAS CEL01A PR_FS 6.25
CEL01D PR_FS 5
DEL01 PR_FS 0
DPFR DRILLED PIER FOUNDATION DESIGN REVIEW S S MSMI EPSH DESF PR_FS 0
CEL01C APPROVE MFR. DRAWINGS S S UNAS UNAS CELRQN PR_FS 40
DEL02 TRANSMIT LINE ENGINEERING S S UNAS UNAS CEL01C PR_FS 0
DEL01 PR_FS 0
DPFR PR_FS 0
G3-GATE3 PR_FF 0
DEREST02 DISTRIBUTION CONCEPTUAL ESTIMATE SUBMITTAL A A MDPE ANAL DEREST01 PR_FS 0
FCLNOI STORMWATER PLAN NOI S S GEGI GEGI ALS06 PR_FS 8
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 4 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:03 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046606
EATONTON PRIMARY 190442 - RAYONIER 46 KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
11/14/2024 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046606
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

FCL01 PR_SS -21
BIDFCL BID CLEAR R/W S S GEGI UNAS DEL02 PR_FS 10
BIDFD BID FOUNDATIONS S S MSMI EPSH CEL01B PR_FS 10
DEL02 PR_FS 10
EEGREV REVIEW TEAMS ESTIMATE (LABOR/MATERIAL) S S SEHI LINE DEL02 PR_FS 10
MCLFD RECEIVE ANCHOR BOLTS MATLS S S MDPE ANAL CEL01C PR_FS 0
CELRQN PR_FS 70
EQPT PR_FF 0
GCLFD PR_SS -25
ALS04B CLEAR R/W STAKING S S GASC FCAR DEL01 PR_FS 8
FCL01 PR_SS -10
ALS04C FOUNDATION STAKING S S GASC FCAR GCLFD PR_SS -10
ALS04D FINAL STAKING S S GASC FCAR GCL01 PR_SS -10
DISTEASE DISTRIBUTION EASEMENT A A MDPE ANAL DEREST02 PR_FS 0
DISTMAT DISTRIBUTION ORDER LONG LEAD MATERIAL A A MDPE ANAL DEREST02 PR_FS 0
DISTPERM DISTRIBUTION PERMITTING A A MDPE ANAL DEREST02 PR_FS 0
DPRTFAP DPRT/ BEST PRACTICE FINAL APPROVAL FOR DISTRIBUTION A A MDPE ANAL DEREST02 PR_FS 0
FCL03 CREW SUPPORT S S GEGI UNAS DELPT02 PR_FS 0
FCLNOI PR_FS 4
GCL01 PR_SS -5
FCL04 FOUNDATION CREW SUPPORT S S GEGI UNAS DELPT02 PR_FS 0
FCLNOI PR_FS 0
GCLFD PR_SS -4
G4-GATE4 GATE 4 CONSTRUCTION PHASE S S MDPE ANAL FCL01 PR_SS 0
FCL03 PR_SS 0
GCL01 PR_SS 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 5 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:03 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046606
EATONTON PRIMARY 190442 - RAYONIER 46 KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
11/14/2024 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046606
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

GCLFD PR_SS 0
OUTAGE PR_SS 0
REPE3 PR_SS 0
REPE3 SET UP PRE-CONSTRUCTION CONFERENCE S S MDPE ANAL DEL02 PR_FS 30
EEGREV PR_FS 10
MCL01 RECEIVE MATERIAL S S MDPE ANAL EQPT PR_FF 0
GCL01 PR_SS -40
SHIPPING PR_FS 0
FCL01 CLEAR R/W S S GEGI UNAS BIDFCL PR_FS 10
DEL02 PR_FS 8
DELPT02 PR_FS 6.4
GCL01 LINE CONSTRUCTION ( ) S S LBDA UNAS CULT01 PR_FS 0
DEL02 PR_FS 24
DELPT02 PR_FS 6.4
FCLNOI PR_FS 8
GCLFD PR_SS 0
REPE3 PR_FS 0
GCLFD INSTALL FOUNDATIONS S S MSMI KEWH BIDFD PR_FS 8
CEL01B PR_FS 0
DEL02 PR_FS 0
DELPT02 PR_FS 6.4
FCLNOI PR_FS 8.8
OUTAGE LINE OUTAGE - CAPITAL S S MDPE ANAL GCL01 PR_SS 0
DEL03 FINAL INSPECTION S S UNAS UNAS GCL01 PR_FF 0
G5-GATE5 GATE 5 CLOSEOUT PHASE S S MDPE ANAL HPB02 PR_SS 0
GCL02 COMPLETE COUNTERPOISE (5 POLES) S S DBSH DBSH GCL01 PR_FF 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 6 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:03 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046606
EATONTON PRIMARY 190442 - RAYONIER 46 KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
11/14/2024 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046606
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

HPB02 REQUIRED FINISH / IN-SERVICE DATE S S MDPE ANAL ALS04B PR_FS 0
ALS04C PR_FS 0
ALS04D PR_FS 0
DEL03 PR_FF 0
DESC PR_FF 0
FCL03 PR_FS 0
FCL04 PR_FS 0
FCL05 PR_FS 0
FCLNOI PR_FS 0
G4-GATE4 PR_FF 0
GCL01 PR_FF 0
GCL02 PR_FF 0
OUTAGE PR_FF 0
REPE3 PR_FS 0
ALS02F AS-BUILT FIELD ENGINEERING S S GASC FCAR DEL03 PR_FS 4
ALS03F AS-BUILT OFFICE ENGINEERING S S GASC FCAR ALS02F PR_FS 0
DELDOC ENGINEERING JOB CLOSE S S UNAS UNAS ALS02F PR_FS 0
ALS03F PR_SS 10
DELWOC WORK ORDER CLOSE S S SEHI LINE DELDOC PR_FS 0
DESC PR_FF 0
G5-GATE5 PR_FF 0
HPB02 PR_FS 60
DISTJPS DISTRIBUTION JOB PACKAGE SUBMITTAL A A MDPE ANAL DISTEASE PR_FS 0
DISTPERM PR_FS 0
DPRTFAP PR_FS 0
DISTOHC DISTRIBUTION OVERHEAD CONSTRUCTION A A MDPE ANAL DISTJPS PR_FS 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 7 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:03 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046606
EATONTON PRIMARY 190442 - RAYONIER 46 KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
11/14/2024 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046606
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

*** End of Report ***
DISTUDC DISTRIBUTION UNDERGROUND CONSTRUCTION A A MDPE ANAL DISTJPS PR_FS 0
DISTCC DISTRIBUTION CONSTRUCTION COMPLETION A A MDPE ANAL DISTOHC PR_FS 0
DISTUDC PR_FS 0
DISTWOC DISTRIBUTION FIELD CLOSE A A MDPE ANAL DISTCC PR_FS 40
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 8 of 8
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:03 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046606
EATONTON PRIMARY 190442 - RAYONIER 46 KV
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
11/14/2024 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046606
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

Activity
Id
Activity
Description
Activity
Start
S/A Activity
Finish
S/A Supv Eng
/For
Org
Dur
Rem
Dur
Float
Total
Predecessor
Activity
Pred
Type
Lag
Days
DESC EATONTON PRIMARY SUB A S HLUN ANAL G1-SCHEDULE PR_SS 0
HPB01 PR_SS 0
G1-GATE1 GATE 1 INITIATION PHASE A A HLUN ANAL G1-SCHEDULE PR_SS 0
G1-GATE12 SUBMIT GATE 1 TRANSITION (1-20) A A HLUN ANAL G1-GATE1 PR_FF 0
G1-PRIOR PR_FS 0
G1-PRIOR VALIDATE PROJECT PRIORITIZATION (1-18) A A HLUN ANAL G1-SCHEDULE PR_FS 0
G1-SCHEDULE INITIATE LONG RANGE PLANNING SCHEDULE (1-15) A A HLUN ANAL 0 0
DEREST DISTRIBUTION CONCEPTUAL ESTIMATE REQUEST (NOT 
NEEDED)
A A HLUN ANAL DPRTCA PR_FS 0
DEREST01 DISTRIBUTION CONCEPTUAL DESIGN ENGINEERING A A HLUN ANAL DEREST PR_FS 0
DEREST02 DISTRIBUTION CONCEPTUAL ESTIMATE SUBMITTAL A A HLUN ANAL DEREST01 PR_FS 0
DISTCC DISTRIBUTION CONSTRUCTION COMPLETION A A HLUN ANAL DISTOHC PR_FS 0
DISTUDC PR_FS 0
DISTEASE DISTRIBUTION EASEMENT A A HLUN ANAL DEREST02 PR_FS 0
DISTJPS DISTRIBUTION JOB PACKAGE SUBMITTAL A A HLUN ANAL DISTEASE PR_FS 0
DISTPERM PR_FS 0
DPRTFAP PR_FS 0
DISTMAT DISTRIBUTION ORDER LONG LEAD MATERIAL A A HLUN ANAL DEREST02 PR_FS 0
DISTOHC DISTRIBUTION OVERHEAD CONSTRUCTION (NOT NEEDED) A A HLUN ANAL DISTJPS PR_FS 0
DISTPERM DISTRIBUTION PERMITTING A A HLUN ANAL DEREST02 PR_FS 0
DISTUDC DISTRIBUTION UNDERGROUND CONSTRUCTION A A HLUN ANAL DISTJPS PR_FS 0
DISTWOC DISTRIBUTION FIELD CLOSE A A HLUN ANAL DISTCC PR_FS 40
DPRTCA DPRT CONCEPT APPROVAL A A HLUN ANAL G1-SCHEDULE PR_FS 0
G2-CEDESMET PR_FS 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 1 of 9
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:04 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046607
EATONTON PRIMARY
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
5/30/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046607
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

DPRTFAP DPRT/ BEST PRACTICE FINAL APPROVAL FOR DISTRIBUTION A A HLUN ANAL DEREST02 PR_FS 0
G2-ALL03 CONCEPTUAL/FORMAL SITE LOCATION (NOT NEEDED) A A RAWE UNAS G2-DEDCE01 PR_FS 3
G2-SCOPEPHASE PROJECT SCOPING PHASE A A HLUN ANAL G2-STAKE PR_FS 0
G2-CEDESMET CONCEPTUAL DESIGN KICKOFF MEETING A A HLUN ANAL G2-PEGWO PR_FS 2
G2-RISKMAN UPDATE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN A A HLUN ANAL G2-GTSRVW PR_FS 0
G2-
PREOUTAGE
PR_FS 0
G2-STAKE STAKEHOLDER NOTIFICATION A A HLUN ANAL G1-GATE12 PR_FS 10
HPB01 BUDGET APPROVAL A A HLUN ANAL G2-WOSUS PR_FS 0
G2-CONCEP GATE 2 CONCEPTUAL DESIGN PHASE A A HLUN ANAL G2-HPB01 PR_SS 0
G2-HPB01 BUDGET APPROVAL A A HLUN ANAL G2-
SCOPEPHASE
PR_SS 0
G2-DEDCE01 PRELIMINARY CONCEPTUAL DESIGN PLAN DWG A A RPRI UNAS G2-CEDESMET PR_FS 3
G2-PREOUTAGE PRELIMINARY OUTAGE COORDINATION A A HLUN ANAL G2-DEDQAEST PR_FS 2
G2-DEDSFED PR_FS 2
G2-GTSRVW PR_FS 2
G2-PEGWO CREATE WORK ORDER A A HLUN SUBA G2-HPB01 PR_FS 3
G2-WOSUS WORK ORDER SUSPENSION A A HLUN ANAL DESC PR_FF 0
G2-ALS013 PR_FS 0
G2-BAS01 PR_FS 0
G2-CONCEP PR_FF 0
G2-RISKMAN PR_FS 0
G2-BAS01 SEND & ASSIGN GATE 3 PRELIMINARY BASELINE A A HLUN ANAL G2-RISKMAN PR_SS 0
G2-ALS013 SITE EVALUATION A A JFWE UNAS G2-ALL03 PR_SS 0
G2-PGAT PRELIMINARY GEOTECH ASSESSMENT A A DRTH GWAS G2-ALL03 PR_FS 2
G2-DEDCE01 PR_FS 2
G2-SCOPE SCOPING MEETING A A GEGR UNAS G2-ALL03 PR_FS 2
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 2 of 9
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:04 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046607
EATONTON PRIMARY
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
5/30/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046607
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

G2-CEDESMET PR_FS 0
G2-DEDCE01 PR_FS 2
G2-DEDCE02 CONCEPTUAL DESIGN PLAN DWG A A RPRI UNAS G2-DEDCE01 PR_FS 0
G2-SCOPE PR_FS 2
G2-EECRL01 CONCEPTUAL PCA SHORT CIRCUIT STUDY A A UNAS UNAS G2-CEDESMET PR_FS 2
G2-SCOPE PR_FS 2
ALS01 PROPERTY OWNER NOTIFICATION (NOT NEEDED) A A JFWE UNAS REPE2 PR_FS 0
G3-GATE3 GATE 3 ENGINEERING PHASE A A HLUN ANAL REPE2 PR_SS 0
PEGWO WORK ORDER (CREATE / UNSUSPEND) A A HLUN SUBA HPB01 PR_FS 5
REPE2 PRE-ENGINEERING MEETING S S HLUN ANAL 0 0
ALS02 FIELD ENGINEERING A A JFWE WDKN ALS01 PR_FS 0
G2-CESTRFDN CONCEPTUAL CIVIL FOUNDATION REVIEW A A DRTH GWAS G2-DEDCE02 PR_SS 0
G2-PGAT PR_FS 2
DEDRQN REQUISITION PHYSICAL NON-STOCK MATERIAL A A RACB BPEP DED01 PR_SS 0
G2-CEOILCON PRELIMINARY OIL CONTAINMENT ASSESSMENT A A DRTH CASH G2-CESTRFDN PR_SS 2
G2-EECRL02 CONCEPTUAL PCA RELAY STUDY A A UNAS UNAS G2-EECRL01 PR_FS 0
BAS01 SEND & ASSIGN COMMITTED BASELINE S S HLUN ANAL REPE2 PR_FS 10
CULT01 CULTURAL RESOURCES ASSESSMENT A A JJCA KKOS PEGWO PR_FS 10
DED01 PHYSICAL ENGINEERING A A RACB BPEP REPE2 PR_FS 10
EECSK PROTECTION & CONTROL PACKAGE A A RACB X2BP REPE2 PR_FS 10
ENVR01 ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT A A JJCA DMRI ALS01 PR_FS 5
PEGWO PR_FS 10
G2-EECEPOV CONCEPTUAL P&C RELAY OVERVIEW A A SHAS UNAS G2-EECRL01 PR_FS 3
G2-EECRL02 PR_SS 0
G4-GATE4 GATE 4 CONSTRUCTION PHASE S S HLUN ANAL FCS02 PR_SS 0
GCS01 PR_SS 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 3 of 9
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:04 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046607
EATONTON PRIMARY
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
5/30/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046607
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

GCSEI02 PR_SS 0
REPE3 PR_SS 0
GEOTECH GEOTECH A A DRTH GWAS ALS01 PR_FS 10
PEGWO PR_FS 0
REPE3 PRE-CONSTRUCTION MEETING S S HLUN ANAL CULT01 PR_FS 0
DED02 PR_FS 0
TSTT01 TELECOM REVIEW A A INFO ATHA PEGWO PR_FS 10
G2-DEDCIE CIVIL ESTIMATING A A RPRI JEHE G2-CEOILCON PR_FS 0
G2-CESTRFDN PR_FS 0
G2-DEDTEAMS UPDATE TEAMS MATERIAL AND LABOR- PHYISCAL A A RPRI UNAS G2-CEOILCON PR_FS 0
G2-CESTRFDN PR_FS 0
G2-DEDCE02 PR_FS 2
ALS03 OFFICE ENGINEERING A A JFWE WDKN ALS02 PR_FS 0
ENVR01S SUBSTATION SAMPLING S S CCOL NLHU DED01 PR_SS 5
FCLNOI STORMWATER PLAN NOI S S GEGI GEGI ALS05 PR_FS 4
G2-EECEP01 CONCEPTUAL CONTROL DESIGN A A SHAS UNAS G2-EECEPOV PR_FS 0
G2-EECRL02 PR_FS 0
G2-SCOPE PR_FS 2
FCS01 BID GRADING S S MSMI DED02 PR_FS 5
REPE2 PR_FS 20
G2-DEDQAEST QA PHYSICAL ESTIMATE A A RPRI UNAS G2-DEDCIE PR_FS 0
G2-DEDTEAMS PR_FS 0
ALS05 DESIGN GRADING A A DRTH NFDY ALS03 PR_FS 0
ENVR01 PR_FS 5
REPE2 PR_FS 10
GTSWR WORK REQUEST SUBMITTAL A A DRSM UNAS REPE2 PR_FS 25
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 4 of 9
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:04 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046607
EATONTON PRIMARY
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
5/30/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046607
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

G2-EECEPQA CONCEPTUAL CONTROL DESIGN REVIEW A A SHAS UNAS G2-EECEP01 PR_FS 0
G2-DEDSFED SHAREHOLDER FEEDBACK IMPLEMENTATION A A RPRI UNAS G2-DEDQAEST PR_FS 5
CECONTDE OIL CONTAINMENT DESIGN ENGINEERING A A DRTH RFIS CESTRFDN PR_SS 0
CESTRFDN CIVIL STRUCTURE REVIEW & FOUNDATION DESIGN A A DRTH GWAS DED01 PR_SS 10
GEOTECH PR_FS 2
G2-EECEP02 CONCEPTUAL CONTROL DESIGN TRANSMITTAL A A SHAS UNAS G2-EECEPQA PR_FS 0
G2-EECTEAMS UPDATE TEAMS MATERIAL AND LABOR - CONTROL A A SHAS UNAS G2-EECEPQA PR_FS 0
GCW02 SHOP WIRING S S BSMC UNAS EEC02 PR_FS 8
EECRQN PR_FS 20
G2-GTSRVW CONCEPTUAL TEST REVIEW A A UNAS UNAS G2-EECEP02 PR_FS 2
PEERVW PEER REVIEW A A RACB BPEP DED01 PR_FS 0
EECSKQC P&C QUALITY CONTROL A A PCAS UNAS EECSK PR_FS 5
DEDQA PHYSICAL ENGINEERING QA A A RACB BPEP ALS05 PR_FS 0
CECONTDE PR_FS 0
CESTRFDN PR_FS 0
DED01 PR_FS 0
PEERVW PR_FS 0
DED02 TRANSMIT PHYSICAL ENGINEERING A A RACB BPEP DEDQA PR_FS 0
G3-GATE3 PR_FF 0
DEDSF SEND DRAWINGS TO SHOP FAB A A RACB BPEP DED02 PR_SS 0
EECPT PRELIMINARY TRANSMITTAL A A RACB X2BP EECSKQC PR_FS 1
EEC01 CONTROL ENGINEERING INDOOR A A RACB X2BP DED01 PR_SS 15
EECPT PR_FS 0
EECSK PR_FS 0
EECSKQC PR_FS 5
TSTT01 PR_FS 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 5 of 9
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:04 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046607
EATONTON PRIMARY
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
5/30/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046607
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

EECRQN REQUISITION CONTROL NON-STOCK MATERIAL A A RACB X2BP EEC01 PR_SS 5
EECQA CONTROL ENGINEERING QA INDOOR A A RACB X2BP EEC01 PR_FS 0
EEC02 TRANSMIT CONTROL ENGINEERING INDOOR A A RACB X2BP EECQA PR_FS 0
G3-GATE3 PR_FF 0
EECRL01 DESIGN RELAY SETTINGS A A UNAS UNAS EEC02 PR_FS 1
FCS02 SUBSTATION GRADING S S MSMI JERL FCLNOI PR_FS 4
FCS01 PR_FS 16
EECRLQC DESIGN RELAY SETTINGS QC A A UNAS UNAS EECRL01 PR_FS 0
GTSPQA PANEL QUALITY ASSURANCE A A TGUA UNAS GCW02 PR_FS 12.5
EQPT MATERIALS LOE S S MAJ_EQPT - 
S
PR_SS 0
MAJ_EQPT - S RECEIVE MAJOR EQUIPMENT S S HLUN ANAL PEGWO PR_FS 5
SHIPPING MATERIAL LONGEST LEAD ITEM S S HLUN ANAL DEDRQN PR_SS 5
EQPT PR_FF 0
EECRL02 TRANSMIT RELAY SETTINGS A A UNAS UNAS EECRLQC PR_FS 0
G3-GATE3 PR_FF 0
GTSREV TEST REVIEW A A DRSM UNAS EEC02 PR_FS 10
EECRL02 PR_FS 0
EEC03 TRANSMITTAL OF LOGIC DIAGRAM A A RACB X2BP EECRL02 PR_FS 1
G3-GATE3 PR_FF 0
EEC11 CONTROL ENGINEERING OUTDOOR A A RACB X2BP EEC01 PR_SS 0
MAJ_EQPT - 
S
PR_FS 0
MCS01 RECEIVE MATERIAL S S HLUN ANAL DEDSF PR_FS 0
EQPT PR_FF 0
GCS01 PR_SS -40
SHIPPING PR_FS 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 6 of 9
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:04 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046607
EATONTON PRIMARY
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
5/30/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046607
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

GCS01 SUBSTATION CONSTRUCTION PRE-WORK (
)
S S UNAS UNAS DED02 PR_FS 32
DEDSF PR_FS 38.4
EEC02 PR_FS 24
ENVR01S PR_FS 12.8
FCS02 PR_FS 5
MAJ_EQPT - 
S
PR_FS 4
REPE3 PR_FS 6.4
EECQAO CONTROL ENGINEERING QA OUTDOOR A A RACB X2BP EEC11 PR_FS 0
EEC12 TRANSMIT CONTROL ENGINEERING OUTDOOR A A RACB X2BP EECQAO PR_FS 0
G3-GATE3 PR_FF 0
EEGREV REVIEW TEAMS ESTIMATE (LABOR/MATERIAL) A A SEHI SUBA BAS01 PR_FS 0
DED02 PR_FS 10
EEC02 PR_FS 10
EEC12 PR_FS 1
GCSCH INSTALL CONTROL HOUSE (NOT NEEDED) A A SCOT UNAS 0 0
GCSEI02 INSTALL EQUIPMENT S S JEWD UNAS GCS01 PR_SS 10
OUTAGE SUB OUTAGE - CAPITAL S S HLUN ANAL GCS01 PR_SS 0
GCW01 FIELD WIRING S S BSMC CCOL GCS01 PR_SS 20
PHYSEC PHYSICAL SECURITY INTEGRATOR A A MCMA MCMA 0 0
TSFT SUB FIBER TERMINATION A A INFO JGCR 0 0
TSTT02 CIRCUIT INSTALLATION A A INFO ATHA 0 0
GTS01 TEST & CUT-IN (LOE) S S GTS01-A1 PR_SS 0
GTS01-A1 TEST & CUT-IN (Engineer 1) S S DRSM UNAS EEC03 PR_FS 0
GCW01 PR_SS 0
GTSPQA PR_FS 6.25
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 7 of 9
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:04 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046607
EATONTON PRIMARY
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
5/30/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046607
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

GTSREV PR_FS 10
GTSWR PR_FS 0
GTS01-A2 TEST & CUT-IN (Engineer 2) S S DRSM UNAS EEC03 PR_FS 0
GCW01 PR_SS 0
GTS01 PR_FF 0
GTSPQA PR_FS 6.25
GTSREV PR_FS 10
GTSWR PR_FS 0
DED03 FINAL SUBSTATION INSPECTION S S RACB BPEP GCS01 PR_FS 0
GTS01-A1 PR_FF -1
GTS01-A2 PR_FF -1
DEDAB AS-BUILT PHYSICAL ENGINEERING A A RACB BPEP DED03 PR_SS 0
G5-GATE5 GATE 5 CLOSEOUT PHASE S S HLUN ANAL HPB02 PR_SS 0
HPB02 REQUIRED FINISH / IN-SERVICE DATE S S HLUN ANAL DED03 PR_FF 0
DESC PR_FF 0
FCS02 PR_FS 0
G4-GATE4 PR_FF 0
GCS01 PR_FS 0
GCSEI02 PR_FS 0
GCW01 PR_FS 0
GTS01-A1 PR_FS 0
GTS01-A2 PR_FS 0
GTSFC PR_FS 0
MCS01 PR_FS 0
OUTAGE PR_FS 0
REPE3 PR_FS 0
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 8 of 9
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:04 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046607
EATONTON PRIMARY
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
5/30/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046607
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

*** End of Report ***
GTSFC TEST FIELD CHANGES S S DRSM UNAS GTS01-A1 PR_FS 0
GTS01-A2 PR_FS 0
EECRL03 PROMOTE PENDING RELAY SETTINGS A A UNAS UNAS GTS01-A1 PR_FS 10
GTS01-A2 PR_FS 5
HPB02 PR_FS 0
EECAB AS-BUILT CONTROL ENGINEERING A A RACB X2BP GTSFC PR_FS 5
EECFCR CONTROL ENGINEERING FIELD CHANGE REVIEW A A RACB X2BP EECAB PR_SS 10
WKOC WORK ORDER CLOSE A A SEHI SUBA DEDAB PR_FS 0
DESC PR_FF 0
EECAB PR_FS 0
EECFCR PR_FS 0
EECRL03 PR_FS 0
G5-GATE5 PR_FF 0
HPB02 PR_FS 60
TMCRPR8B GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
Page: 9 of 9
Date:03/11/2024
Job Network Report Time:02:23:04 PM
Project Item:
Project Manager:
In Service Date:
Area:
Job Type:
Job Desc:
Job Name:
2046607
EATONTON PRIMARY
BCA Approved 11/15/23 Installation of Smart Valve devices in the Eatonton and Br
MODIFICATION
CENTRAL-MACON
5/30/2025 ( Scheduled ) Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Job ID: 2046607
Job Status: APPROVED
Region: CENTRAL
Owner: GPCO
OP: FP: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

Discipline/Retirement Unit UM Quantity Material Labor Equipment Total
PLANT ADDITIONS
CONSTRUCTION(Estimator: )
CURRENT LIMITING REACTOR EA 2
Discipline Total
Sub-Total PLANT ADDITIONS
PLANT TRANSFER ADDITIONS
Sub-Total PLANT TRANSFER ADDITIONS
TOTAL PLANT ADDITIONS WITHOUT OVERHEADS
PLANT REMOVALS
Sub-Total PLANT REMOVALS
PLANT TRANSFER REMOVALS
Sub-Total PLANT TRANSFER REMOVALS
TOTAL PLANT REMOVALS WITHOUT OVERHEADS
MAINTENANCE
Sub-Total MAINTENANCE
TOTAL MAINTENANCE
OPTION 1: Installing Smart Valve Just Outside the existing fence - Northwest side see attachment to this PI.
 Installation of Smart Valve devices at Eatonton Primary on the Eatonton Primary-Oasis 230kV line and the Branch 
- Oasis 230kV line.
This PI covers (intends to capture) Smart Valve material and GPC construction labor only.
All other costs will be captured on PI 2046607.
TMCRET40 GEORGIA POWER COMPANY Date: 03/11/2024
Page 1 OF 2 ESTIMATED COST BY RETIREMENT UNITS Time: 02:23:05PM
Project Item: 2046601
OP: 11073222 FP: 11073072 Version: Budget From Working Copy
Type Work: MODIFICATION
Facility Name: EATONTON PRIMARY Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Nearest Town: EATONTON Originator: 
Description: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

ESTIMATE SUMMARY TOTALS
Plant Additions (Labor, Matl, Eqp)
Overheads
Total Plant Additions
Plant Removals (Labor, Matl, Eqp)
Overheads
Total Plant Removals
Plant Salvage
Total PI CIAC
Total Cash Required
Total Maintenance Cost
Original Cost Retired
*** End of Report ***
TMCRET40 GEORGIA POWER COMPANY Date: 03/11/2024
Page 2 OF 2 ESTIMATED COST BY RETIREMENT UNITS Time: 02:23:05PM
Project Item: 2046601
OP: 11073222 FP: 11073072 Version: Budget From Working Copy
Type Work: MODIFICATION
Facility Name: EATONTON PRIMARY Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Nearest Town: EATONTON Originator:
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

Discipline/Retirement Unit UM Quantity Material Labor Equipment Total
PLANT ADDITIONS
CONSTRUCTION(Estimator: )
GROUNDING-COUNTERPOISE FT 254
GROUNDING-STANDARD GROUND GAL EA 3
GUYS, FIXTURES AND GUYS LT 1
INSULATOR-SUSPENSION 230KV SE 1
INSUL-HORIZONTAL POST 230KV SE 1
SET OF FIXTURES EA 12
STEEL POLE - 100' EA 3
TRANS, MEALS, ETC. LT 1
WIRE-ACSR,SINGLE CONDUCTOR LT 1
WIRE-ACSS 1 COND 1351.5 KCMIL FT 1,950
WIRE-ALUMOWELD (OH GND LT 1
WIRE-STEEL (OH GRND 3/8" FT 650
Discipline Total
ENGINEERING(Estimator: )
DIRECT ENGINEERING LT 1
Discipline Total
PLAN & PROJ(Estimator: )
DIRECT ENGINEERING LT 1
Discipline Total
RIGHT OF WAY(Estimator: )
ROW:CREW SUPPORT LT 1
Discipline Total
Sub-Total PLANT ADDITIONS
PLANT TRANSFER ADDITIONS
Sub-Total PLANT TRANSFER ADDITIONS
TOTAL PLANT ADDITIONS WITHOUT OVERHEADS
PLANT REMOVALS
CONSTRUCTION(Estimator: )
GPC LINE WORK: 
Line modifications to first outside the northwest side of substation: Between substation structure and structrue 
42.
1/22/2024 ROF Note: Estimate most conservative scenario to be able to cover the highest potential cost associate 
with this work.
Summary of Scope of Work:
Line modifications to first outside the northwest side of substation: Between substation structure and structure 
42.
Segment: SW 190231 EATONTON (42) - STR (89)
Structure 42: (2) Lattice Steel 100 feet high; Martin 1361.5 54/19 ASCR Conductor
- (3) Brown Disc Insulators 16 Disc per String; (12) Steel Galvanized 7/16" Guys, (12) 2 Helix Anchors; 
Grounding # 2CU
*** Estimators comments are located in the "Estimate Notes" tab ***
****************PCA NOTES - 02/13/2024****************
- Update Eatonton Primary-Oasis 230kV TLD as necessary.
***************END PCA NOTES*****************
TMCRET40 GEORGIA POWER COMPANY Date: 03/11/2024
Page 1 OF 3 ESTIMATED COST BY RETIREMENT UNITS Time: 02:23:07PM
Project Item: 2046604
OP: 11073729 FP: 11073072 Version: Budget From Working Copy
Type Work: MODIFICATION
Facility Name: EATONTON PRIMARY - OASIS 230KV Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Nearest Town: Originator: 
Description: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

Discipline/Retirement Unit UM Quantity Material Labor Equipment Total
ANCHOR GUY EA 4
ARM-STEEL TUBULAR CROSSARM EA 1
GROUNDING-COUNTERPOISE FT 254
GROUNDING-STANDARD GROUND GAL EA 2
INSULATOR-SUSPENSION 230KV SE 1
STEEL POLE - 100' EA 2
WIRE-ACSR,SGL COND 1351 KCMIL FT 1,950
WIRE-ALUMOWELD (OH GRND 7#9 FT 650
Discipline Total
Sub-Total PLANT REMOVALS
PLANT TRANSFER REMOVALS
Sub-Total PLANT TRANSFER REMOVALS
TOTAL PLANT REMOVALS WITHOUT OVERHEADS
MAINTENANCE
Sub-Total MAINTENANCE
TOTAL MAINTENANCE
TMCRET40 GEORGIA POWER COMPANY Date: 03/11/2024
Page 2 OF 3 ESTIMATED COST BY RETIREMENT UNITS Time: 02:23:07PM
Project Item: 2046604
OP: 11073729 FP: 11073072 Version: Budget From Working Copy
Type Work: MODIFICATION
Facility Name: EATONTON PRIMARY - OASIS 230KV Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Nearest Town: Originator:
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

ESTIMATE SUMMARY TOTALS
Plant Additions (Labor, Matl, Eqp)
Overheads
Total Plant Additions
Plant Removals (Labor, Matl, Eqp)
Overheads
Total Plant Removals
Plant Salvage
Total PI CIAC
Total Cash Required
Total Maintenance Cost
Original Cost Retired
*** End of Report ***
TMCRET40 GEORGIA POWER COMPANY Date: 03/11/2024
Page 3 OF 3 ESTIMATED COST BY RETIREMENT UNITS Time: 02:23:07PM
Project Item: 2046604
OP: 11073729 FP: 11073072 Version: Budget From Working Copy
Type Work: MODIFICATION
Facility Name: EATONTON PRIMARY - OASIS 230KV Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Nearest Town: Originator: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

Discipline/Retirement Unit UM Quantity Material Labor Equipment Total
PLANT ADDITIONS
CONSTRUCTION(Estimator: )
GROUNDING-COUNTERPOISE FT 254
GROUNDING-STANDARD GROUND GAL EA 3
GUYS, FIXTURES AND GUYS LT 1
INSULATOR-SUSPENSION 230KV SE 1
INSUL-HORIZONTAL POST 230KV SE 1
SET OF FIXTURES EA 12
STEEL POLE - 100' EA 3
TRANS, MEALS, ETC. LT 1
WIRE-ACSR,SINGLE CONDUCTOR LT 1
WIRE-ACSS 1 COND 1351.5 KCMIL FT 1,950
WIRE-ALUMOWELD (OH GND LT 1
WIRE-STEEL (OH GRND 3/8" FT 650
Discipline Total
ENGINEERING(Estimator: 
)
DIRECT ENGINEERING LT 1
Discipline Total
PLAN & PROJ(Estimator: )
DIRECT ENGINEERING LT 1
Discipline Total
RIGHT OF WAY(Estimator: )
ROW:CREW SUPPORT LT 1
Discipline Total
Sub-Total PLANT ADDITIONS
PLANT TRANSFER ADDITIONS
Sub-Total PLANT TRANSFER ADDITIONS
TOTAL PLANT ADDITIONS WITHOUT OVERHEADS
PLANT REMOVALS
GPC LINE WORK: 
Line modifications to first outside the northwest side of substation: Between substation structure and structrue 
42.
1/22/2024 ROF Note: Estimate most conservative scenario to be able to cover the highest potential cost associate 
with this work.
Summary of Scope of Work:
Line modifications to first outside the northwest side of substation: Between substation structure and structure 
42.
Segment: SW 190319 EATONTON PRIMARY (42) - STR 89
Structure 42: (2) Lattice Steel 100 feet high; Martin 1361.5 54/19 ASCR Conductor
- (3) Brown Disc Insulators 16 Disc per String; (12) Steel Galvanized 7/16" Guys, (12) 2 Helix Anchors; 
Grounding # 2CU
*** Estimators comments are located in the "Estimate Notes" tab.***
****************PCA NOTES - 02/13/2024****************
- Update Branch-Oasis 230kV line TLD as necessary.
***************END PCA NOTES*****************
TMCRET40 GEORGIA POWER COMPANY Date: 03/11/2024
Page 1 OF 3 ESTIMATED COST BY RETIREMENT UNITS Time: 02:23:08PM
Project Item: 2046605
OP: 11073730 FP: 11073072 Version: Budget From Working Copy
Type Work: MODIFICATION
Facility Name: BRANCH - OASIS 230KV Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Nearest Town: Originator: 
Description: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

Discipline/Retirement Unit UM Quantity Material Labor Equipment Total
CONSTRUCTION(Estimator: )
ANCHOR GUY EA 4
ARM-STEEL TUBULAR CROSSARM EA 1
GROUNDING-COUNTERPOISE FT 254
GROUNDING-STANDARD GROUND GAL EA 2
INSULATOR-SUSPENSION 230KV SE 1
STEEL POLE - 100' EA 2
WIRE-ACSR,SGL COND 1351 KCMIL FT 1,950
WIRE-ALUMOWELD (OH GRND 7#9 FT 650
Discipline Total
Sub-Total PLANT REMOVALS
PLANT TRANSFER REMOVALS
Sub-Total PLANT TRANSFER REMOVALS
TOTAL PLANT REMOVALS WITHOUT OVERHEADS
MAINTENANCE
Sub-Total MAINTENANCE
TOTAL MAINTENANCE
TMCRET40 GEORGIA POWER COMPANY Date: 03/11/2024
Page 2 OF 3 ESTIMATED COST BY RETIREMENT UNITS Time: 02:23:08PM
Project Item: 2046605
OP: 11073730 FP: 11073072 Version: Budget From Working Copy
Type Work: MODIFICATION
Facility Name: BRANCH - OASIS 230KV Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Nearest Town: Originator: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

ESTIMATE SUMMARY TOTALS
Plant Additions (Labor, Matl, Eqp)
Overheads
Total Plant Additions
Plant Removals (Labor, Matl, Eqp)
Overheads
Total Plant Removals
Plant Salvage
Total PI CIAC
Total Cash Required
Total Maintenance Cost
Original Cost Retired
*** End of Report ***
TMCRET40 GEORGIA POWER COMPANY Date: 03/11/2024
Page 3 OF 3 ESTIMATED COST BY RETIREMENT UNITS Time: 02:23:08PM
Project Item: 2046605
OP: 11073730 FP: 11073072 Version: Budget From Working Copy
Type Work: MODIFICATION
Facility Name: BRANCH - OASIS 230KV Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Nearest Town: Originator: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

Discipline/Retirement Unit UM Quantity Material Labor Equipment Total
PLANT ADDITIONS
CONSTRUCTION(Estimator: )
ANCHOR GUY EA 44
FIXTURES & GUYS (UNDER 110) LT 1
GPC LINE WORK: Needed for Option 1.
Line modifications between structures 1A,1 and 2 to acommodate the installation of Smart Valve on the 230kV 
lines just outside the Eatonton Primary station.
1/22/2024 ROF Note: Estimate most conservative scenario to be able to cover the highest potential cost associate 
with this work.
Summary of Scope of Work:
Line modifications between structures 1A and 2 to accommodate the installation of Smart Valve on the 230kV lines 
just outside the Eatonton Primary station.
Segment 3: SW 190319 EATONTON PRIMARY (42) - STR 89; Penguin 4/0 ACSR w/ 6/1 Stranding; 5/16" Galvanized Steel 
Shield Wire
- Structure 2: 65'/Class H1S Concrete Pole; (3) 69kV Polymer Post Insulators & (5) 20K. 10" Porcelain Disc w/ 7
Disc per String Insulators; 7#10 CW Driven Rod Grounding; (6) ½" Galvanized Steel w/ 7 Stranding Guy Wires; (4) 
2 Helix Anchors; (6) Fiberglass w/ 54 Length and 50000 Strength Guy Insulators.
Segment 2: EATONTON JCT (1) - SW 190401 N.O. EATONTON; Linnet 336.4 w/ 26/7 Stranding ACSR; 5/16" Galvanized 
Steel Shield Wire
- Structure 2: 40'/Class 4 Wood Pole; (6) Brown Disc Insulators w/ 5 disc per string; 7#10 CW Driven Rod 
Grounding; (3) 3/8" Galvanized Steel Guy Wires w. 7 Stranding; (3) Expanding Guy Anchors; (1) Fiberglass ACME 
Guy Insulator w/ 35 Length and 21000 Strength; (2) Fiberglass ACME Guy Insulator w/ 54 Length and 21000 Strength
Segment 1: SW 190443 EATONTON - EATONTON JCT; Linnet 336.4 w/ 26/7 Stranding ACSR; 5/16" Galvanized Steel Shield 
Wire
- Structure 1: 60'/Class 2 Wood Pole; (2) 7/16" Galvanized Steel Guys; (2) Single Helix Anchors; (2) Fiberglass 
ACME Electric 54 Length w/ 21000 Strength Guy Insulators; 
- Structure 1A: 45'/Class 3 Wood Pole (6) Polymer 46kV Strain w/ 1 disc per string & (3) Polymer Post 46kV w/ 
disc per string; 2) 7/16" Galvanized Steel Guys; (1) 2 Helix Anchors; (2) Fiberglass ACME Electric 54 Length w/ 
21000 Strength Guy Insulators; 
Estimate Assumptions:
Remove
- 720' Transmission Conductors and OHGW
- Structure 1A, 1, 2, & 2
Install
- 720' transmission conductors and OHGW
- Structure 2 Segment 3: 45'/LC7 Concrete Pole; 3-Way Deadend; (3WECB3; BT-.038.1)
- Structure 2A: 45'/LC7 Concrete Pole; One Pole Double String, Type 3 Large Angle Structure (1CDS3; BT-020.1)
- Structure 1: 45'/LC7 Concrete Pole; One Pole Double String, Type 2 Medium Angle Structure (1SCSP2; BT-018.1)
- Structure 1A: 45'/LC7 Concrete Pole; One Pole Double String, Type 2 Medium Angle Structure (1SCSP2; BT-018.1)
- Structure 2 Segment 2: 40/LC7 Concrete Pole; One Pole Double String, Type 2 Medium Angle Structure (1SCSP2; 
BT-018.1)
Labor Estimates
Engineering
- Pre-Engineering - Hours
- Preliminary Engineering - Hours
- Field Activity - Engineering - Hours 
- Eng/Design - Hours
Construction
- Labor - weeks @ days per week ( on 2/8/24)
Construction Support
- ROW Clearing - N/A
- Crew Support - 10 units @ $ = $ Total
? weeks @ $ per Week
- Civil - Final pole locations, classes, and work sequences to be coordinated with civil site plan and final 
grade for smart valve installation.
TMCRET40 GEORGIA POWER COMPANY Date: 03/11/2024
Page 1 OF 4 ESTIMATED COST BY RETIREMENT UNITS Time: 02:23:10PM
Project Item: 2046606
OP: 11073731 FP: 11073072 Version: Budget From Working Copy
Type Work: MODIFICATION
Facility Name: EATONTON PRIMARY 190442 - RAYONIER 46 KV Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Nearest Town: EATONTON Originator: 
Description: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

Discipline/Retirement Unit UM Quantity Material Labor Equipment Total
GROUNDING-DRIVEN RODS EA 7
GROUNDING-STANDARD GROUND GAL EA 7
INSULATORS-SUSPENSION LT 1
INSULATOR-SUSPENSION 46KV SE 7
INSUL-HORIZONTAL POST 46KV SE 3
POLES-CONCRETE - 40 FT. EA 1
POLES-CONCRETE - 45 FT. EA 4
WIRE-ACSR,SGL COND 336.4KCMIL FT 2,250
WIRE-STEEL (OH GRND 3/8" FT 750
WIRE-STEEL(OH GND LT 1
Discipline Total
ENGINEERING(Estimator: 
)
DIRECT ENGINEERING LT 1
Discipline Total
PLAN & PROJ(Estimator: )
DIRECT ENGINEERING LT 1
Discipline Total
RIGHT OF WAY(Estimator: )
ROW:CREW SUPPORT LT 1
Discipline Total
Sub-Total PLANT ADDITIONS
PLANT TRANSFER ADDITIONS
Sub-Total PLANT TRANSFER ADDITIONS
TOTAL PLANT ADDITIONS WITHOUT OVERHEADS
PLANT REMOVALS
CONSTRUCTION(Estimator: )
ANCHOR GUY EA 4
FIXTURES & GUYS (UNDER 110) LT 1
GROUNDING-DRIVEN RODS EA 2
GROUNDING-STANDARD GROUND GAL EA 2
INSULATORS-SUSPENSION LT 1
INSULATOR-SUSPENSION 46KV SE 2
INSUL-HORIZONTAL POST 46KV SE 1
POLES-CONCRETE - 65 FT. EA 1
POLES-WOOD - 40 FT. EA 1
POLES-WOOD - 45 FT. EA 1
POLES-WOOD - 60 FT. EA 1
WIRE-ACSR,SGL COND 336.4KCMIL FT 1,350
WIRE-ACSR,SGL COND 4/0 FT 400
WIRE-STEEL (OH GRND 5/16" FT 750
Discipline Total
Sub-Total PLANT REMOVALS
PLANT TRANSFER REMOVALS
Sub-Total PLANT TRANSFER REMOVALS
TOTAL PLANT REMOVALS WITHOUT OVERHEADS
MAINTENANCE
TMCRET40 GEORGIA POWER COMPANY Date: 03/11/2024
Page 2 OF 4 ESTIMATED COST BY RETIREMENT UNITS Time: 02:23:10PM
Project Item: 2046606
OP: 11073731 FP: 11073072 Version: Budget From Working Copy
Type Work: MODIFICATION
Facility Name: EATONTON PRIMARY 190442 - RAYONIER 46 KV Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Nearest Town: EATONTON Originator:
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

Discipline/Retirement Unit UM Quantity Material Labor Equipment Total
Sub-Total MAINTENANCE
TOTAL MAINTENANCE
TMCRET40 GEORGIA POWER COMPANY Date: 03/11/2024
Page 3 OF 4 ESTIMATED COST BY RETIREMENT UNITS Time: 02:23:10PM
Project Item: 2046606
OP: 11073731 FP: 11073072 Version: Budget From Working Copy
Type Work: MODIFICATION
Facility Name: EATONTON PRIMARY 190442 - RAYONIER 46 KV Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Nearest Town: EATONTON Originator: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

ESTIMATE SUMMARY TOTALS
Plant Additions (Labor, Matl, Eqp)
Overheads
Total Plant Additions
Plant Removals (Labor, Matl, Eqp)
Overheads
Total Plant Removals
Plant Salvage
Total PI CIAC
Total Cash Required
Total Maintenance Cost
Original Cost Retired
*** End of Report ***
TMCRET40 GEORGIA POWER COMPANY Date: 03/11/2024
Page 4 OF 4 ESTIMATED COST BY RETIREMENT UNITS Time: 02:23:10PM
Project Item: 2046606
OP: 11073731 FP: 11073072 Version: Budget From Working Copy
Type Work: MODIFICATION
Facility Name: EATONTON PRIMARY 190442 - RAYONIER 46 KV Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Nearest Town: EATONTON Originator: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

Discipline/Retirement Unit UM Quantity Material Labor Equipment Total
PLANT ADDITIONS
CONSTRUCTION(Estimator: 
)
BUSWORK-BAR AND ANGLE, ALUM FT 16
BUSWORK-CABLE, ALUMINUM FT 908
BUSWORK-TUBE, ALUMINUM FT 120
CABINET, DC EA 4
CONDUIT-PLASTIC (PVC) FT 1,080
CONDUIT-STEEL FT 40
CONTROL CABLE FT 1,350
CONTROL HOUSE FOUNDATION EA 12
CONTROL SYSTEM ACCESSORIES LT 1
COUPLING CAPACITOR EA 4
FENCE, SUBSTATION AREA FT 500
FIBER OPTIC CABLE, CONT. RUN EA 1,560
FIBER OPTIC EQUIPMENT LT 1
FOUNDATION - HIGH VOLTAGE EA 8
INSULATOR-POST 230 KV EA 4
LINE TRAP EA 4
LINE TUNER EA 4
MISC AND CONTINGENCIES LT 1
MOVE ON/OFF JOB LT 1
OVERHEAD GROUND SYSTEM LT 1
PANEL / CABINET EA 1
SITE GROUNDING LT 1
SITE IMPROVEMENTS ACCESSORIES LT 1
SPECIAL SERVICES LT 1
STR-STEEL, HV, SECT,BAY,SUPP EA 4
STRUCTURE-LV (BELOW 69KV) ACC LT 1
SURFACING (STONE) TN 2
TRANS, MEALS, ETC. LT 1
Discipline Total
ENGINEERING(Estimator: 
)
DIRECT ENGINEERING LT 1
OPTION 1: Installing Smart Valve Just Outside the existing fence - Northwest side see attachment to this PI.
 Installation of Smart Valve devices at Eatonton Primary on the Eatonton Primary-Oasis 230kV line and the Branch 
- Oasis 230kV line.
This PI covers (intends to capture) SoCo/GPC efforts related to the project. Smart Valve material and labor has 
been captured on PI 2046601.
Additional Scope (1/31/24): Install traps and tuners on either side of the Smart Valves devices for both 230kV 
lines.
****************PCA NOTES - 02/13/2024****************
Oasis 230kV Line: 
 - Update relay settings for new Smart Valve. Increase Zone 2 to cover entire line impedance with full Smart 
Valve impedance.
***************END PCA NOTES*****************
TMCRET40 GEORGIA POWER COMPANY Date: 03/11/2024
Page 1 OF 3 ESTIMATED COST BY RETIREMENT UNITS Time: 02:23:13PM
Project Item: 2046607
OP: 11079740 FP: 11073072 Version: Budget From Working Copy
Type Work: MODIFICATION
Facility Name: EATONTON PRIMARY Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Nearest Town: EATONTON Originator: 
Description: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

Discipline/Retirement Unit UM Quantity Material Labor Equipment Total
Discipline Total
PLAN & PROJ(Estimator: )
DIRECT ENGINEERING LT 1
Discipline Total
RIGHT OF WAY(Estimator: )
CLEARING & GRUBBING LT 1
CLEARING & GRUBBING, INITIAL SITE PREP, ALL LT 1
DEMOLITION, INITIAL SITE PREP LT 1
DIRECT ENGINEERING LT 1
PILINGS LT 1
RETAINING WALL, COMPLETE LT 1
RETAINING WALLS LT 1
SURFACING (STONE) TN 751
Discipline Total
TEST(Estimator: )
DIRECT ENGINEERING LT 1
Discipline Total
Sub-Total PLANT ADDITIONS
PLANT TRANSFER ADDITIONS
Sub-Total PLANT TRANSFER ADDITIONS
TOTAL PLANT ADDITIONS WITHOUT OVERHEADS
PLANT REMOVALS
CONSTRUCTION(Estimator: 
)
BUSWORK, ACCESSORIES LT 1
CONTROL CABLE FT 10
FENCE, SUBSTATION AREA FT 265
SITE GROUNDING LT 1
SITE IMPROVEMENTS ACCESSORIES LT 1
Discipline Total
Sub-Total PLANT REMOVALS
PLANT TRANSFER REMOVALS
Sub-Total PLANT TRANSFER REMOVALS
TOTAL PLANT REMOVALS WITHOUT OVERHEADS
MAINTENANCE
CONSTRUCTION(Estimator: 
)
SITE IMPROVEMENTS ACCESSORIES LT 1
Discipline Total
Sub-Total MAINTENANCE
TOTAL MAINTENANCE
TMCRET40 GEORGIA POWER COMPANY Date: 03/11/2024
Page 2 OF 3 ESTIMATED COST BY RETIREMENT UNITS Time: 02:23:13PM
Project Item: 2046607
OP: 11079740 FP: 11073072 Version: Budget From Working Copy
Type Work: MODIFICATION
Facility Name: EATONTON PRIMARY Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Nearest Town: EATONTON Originator: 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

ESTIMATE SUMMARY TOTALS
Plant Additions (Labor, Matl, Eqp)
Overheads
Total Plant Additions
Plant Removals (Labor, Matl, Eqp)
Overheads
Total Plant Removals
Plant Salvage
Total PI CIAC
Total Cash Required
Total Maintenance Cost
Original Cost Retired
*** End of Report ***
TMCRET40 GEORGIA POWER COMPANY Date: 03/11/2024
Page 3 OF 3 ESTIMATED COST BY RETIREMENT UNITS Time: 02:23:13PM
Project Item: 2046607
OP: 11079740 FP: 11073072 Version: Budget From Working Copy
Type Work: MODIFICATION
Facility Name: EATONTON PRIMARY Facility Required Date: 6/1/2025
Nearest Town: EATONTON Originator:
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

[H]
APPENDIX

[H1]
IDENTIFIED PROBLEMS
&
SOLUTIONS

THERMAL AND VOLTAGE PROBLEM REPORTS
Sections H1a and H1b show the Thermal Problem Reports and Voltage Problem Reports, 
respectively, that were generated during the statewide screening process for each major 
version of the 2024 series base cases. In the Thermal Reports, for each transformer or 
breaker to breaker line for which a problem was identified, the bottom part of the entry, 
organized by year, shows what section or sections are overloaded, pre-, and postcontingency loading, and the facility rating. In the Voltage Reports, for each bus with 
voltage problems, the pre- and post-contingency voltages are shown along with the 
calculated deviation. For both reports, the number of contingencies that cause a problem, 
and worst contingency, case type and unity off are shown.
In the report headers, “DHOST” refers to the standard base case types that typically 
require projects or operating guides to be developed. These case types are described 
more fully in Section D1, 2024 Ten Year Expansion Plan.
For both reports, the top section shows a TEAMS project number, if any, along with the 
Need Date and Project Name. Underneath the Project Name is a Comment by the planner 
indicating how the issue was expected to be addressed at the time, whether an operating 
guide, a project (both preferred and alternative), or an explanation as to why the apparent 
problem is actually not a violation of the planning guidelines.
These reports were printed from a live database. As a result, the TEAMS Need Date is 
the date that the project is timed for AT THE TIME OF PRINTING, as shown at the bottom 
left of the page. It should match the ultimate timing of the project in the Ten Year Plan. 
The date in the Comment field shows when a project was timed AT THE TIME OF THE 
ANALYSIS. These two need dates will usually match, but in some cases, projects have 
been retimed later in the process, so there may be a mismatch. These differences can 
arise because of updated generation dispatch patterns between case versions, because 
of interactions between projects, or because of a need identified through other studies 
such as interface analysis, N-2 screens, etc.
Because these reports contain Critical Energy Infrastructure Information, their distribution 
is subject to regulation by FERC und the Code of Federal Regulations, Section 388.113. 
Therefore, these reports are redacted in their entirety in the Public Disclosure version of 
the IRP filing.
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

[H1a]
THERMAL PROBLEMS
&
SOLUTIONS

2025-2034 TP-East Thermal Problems – v1C (DSHOT) Pages 1-74 are redacted in 
their entirety. 
2025-2034 TP-East Thermal Problems – v1C (W) Pages 1-16 are redacted in their 
entirety. 
2025-2034 TP-East Thermal Problems – v2B Pre-Layers (DSHOT) Pages 1-80 are 
redacted in their entirety. 
2025-2034 TP-East Thermal Problems – v2B Post-Layers (DSHOT) Pages 1-58 are 
redacted in their entirety. 
2025-2034 TP-East Thermal Problems – v2B Pre-Layers(W) Pages 1-9 are redacted 
in their entirety. 
2025-2034 TP-East Thermal Problems – v2B Post-Layers(W) Pages 1-8 are 
redacted in their entirety. 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

[H1b]
VOLTAGE PROBLEMS
&
SOLUTIONS

2025-2034 TP-East Voltage Problems – v1C (DHOST) Pages 1-11 are redacted in 
their entirety. 
2025-2034 TP-East Voltage Problems – v1C (W) Pages 1-9 are redacted in their 
entirety. 
2025-2034 TP-East Voltage Problems – v2B Pre-Layers (DHOST) Pages 1-14 are 
redacted in their entirety. 
2025-2034 TP-East Voltage Problems – v2B Post-Layers (DHOST) Pages 1-5 are 
redacted in their entirety. 
2025-2034 TP-East Voltage Problems – v2B Pre-Layers(W) Pages 1-15 are 
redacted in their entirety. 
2025-2034 TP-East Voltage Problems – v2B Post-Layers(W) Pages 1-15 are 
redacted in their entirety. 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE 

[H2]
LOAD FLOW DATA FILES
LOAD FLOW FILES
“REDACTED”

[H3]
ITS MAPS

GEORGIA POWER REGION BOUNDARIES
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

GEORGIA INTEGRATED TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
115KV LINES
METRO ATLANTA INSERT
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

GEORGIA INTEGRATED TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
230KV LINES
METRO ATLANTA INSERT
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

GEORGIA INTEGRATED TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
500KV LINES
METRO ATLANTA INSERT
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

[H4]
ACRONYMS, ABBREVIATIONS & 
TECHNICAL DEFINITIONS
 

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
1
Acronyms and Abbreviations:
ATC – Available Transfer Capability
BCA – Budget Change Authorization, documentation that provides information about 
the scope, budget, and schedule for capital projects at Georgia Power 
BES – Bulk Electric System
CAP – Corrective Action Plan, filed annually with NERC
CBM – Capacity Benefit Margin
CEII – Critical Energy/Electric Infrastructure Information, defined by FERC as “specific 
engineering, vulnerability, or detailed design information about proposed or 
existing critical infrastructure (physical or virtual)” that meets conditions that can 
be found on FERC’s website: https://www.ferc.gov
Cooperative Energy – A Mississippi electric cooperative, formerly called SMEPA (South 
Mississippi Electric Power Association) and member of MISO RTO
Dalton – City of Dalton, Georgia ITS Participant
DER – Distributed Energy Resource
DESC – Dominion Energy South Carolina (previously SCE&G)
DSP – Distribution Service Provider
EIPC – Eastern Interconnection Planning Collaborative
ERAG – Eastern Interconnection Reliability Assessment Group
ERO – Electric Reliability Organization
FCITC – First Contingency Incremental Transfer Capability
FERC – Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
FRCC – Florida Reliability Coordinating Council
GETs – Grid-Enhancing Technologies
GPC – Georgia Power Company, Georgia ITS Participant
GO – Generation Owner
GTC – Georgia Transmission Corporation, Georgia ITS Participant
ITS – Integrated Transmission System
IWG – Interface Working Group, a working group that is part of TPWG
JETS – Job Estimating and Tracking System
Joint Committee – Joint Committee for Planning and Operations
JSOp – Joint Sub-Committee for Operations

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
2
JSTP – Joint Sub-Committee for Transmission Planning
LTWG – SERC Long – Term Working Group
MEAG – Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia, Georgia ITS Participant
MISO – Midcontinent Independent System Operator. When discussed in terms of the 
SBAA interface, MISO refers to the interconnections with Entergy and 
Cooperative Energy.
MMWG – Multi-regional Modeling Working Group functions under ERAG and is the
NERC designee to develop Eastern Interconnection-wide power flow models per the 
MOD-032 MVA – Megavolt Amperes, unit to measure apparent power
NERC – North American Electric Reliability Council
NITS – Network Integration Transmission Service
NLR – Native Load Reservation
OASIS – Open Access Same-Time Information System
OPC – Oglethorpe Power Corporation
PE – Plant Expenditure
PowerSouth – PowerSouth Energy Cooperative
PRICEM – GPC’s Profitability / Reliability Incremental Cost Evaluation Model
PSEC – PowerSouth Energy Cooperative balancing authority
RC – Reliability Coordinator
RTO – Regional Transmission Organization
SAV – Savannah area transmission network
SBAA – Southern Balancing Authority Area which includes Southern Companies, GTC, 
MEAG, and Dalton as primary transmission providers.
SCE&G – South Carolina Electric & Gas
SCPSA – South Carolina Public Service Authority (also known as Santee Cooper)
SCS – Southern Company Services
SCES – Southern Company Electric System
SEPA – Southeastern Power Administration
SERC – SERC Reliability Corporation
SME – Subject Matter Expert
SOS – Summer Operating Study, performed each Spring

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
3
Southern Companies – The Electric, Natural Gas, and other Companies that are under 
the umbrella of Southern Company; including but not limited to Georgia Power, 
Alabama Power, and Mississippi Power
STWG – ITS Sub-Transmission Working Group
SVS – Static VAR System
TEAMS – Transmission Evaluation and Management System
TIN – Transmission Improvement Notification
TO – Transmission Owner
TP-E – Transmission Planning - East
TPRT – Transmission Project Review Team
TPWG – ITS Transmission Planning Working Group, comprised of Transmission 
Planning representatives from each ITS Participant, meets monthly
TRM – Transmission Reliability Margin
TSA – Transmission Service Agreement
TSR – Transmission Service Request
TVA – Tennessee Valley Authority
TYP – ITS Ten Year Expansion Plan, published annually
VACAR – Subregion of SERC, Virginia and Carolina Companies. When discussed in 
terms of the SBAA interface, VACAR refers to the interconnections with Duke, 
DESC and SCPSA.

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
4
Technical Definitions:
Alternative Transmission Technologies – these technologies comprise a suite of 
tools that optimize the capacity, efficiency, and reliability of the existing electric grid. 
By leveraging advanced materials, and power electronics, these tools enhance 
transmission performance without extensive new infrastructure. They are essential 
for addressing transmission constraints, improving operational flexibility, and 
supporting clean energy integration. These technologies include the following:
• Static Synchronous Compensators
• Static VAR Compensators
• Advanced Power Flow Control Devices
• Transmission Switching
• Synchronous Condensers
• Voltage Source Converters
• Advanced Conductors
• Tower Lifting
ATC (Available Transfer Capability) – a measure of the transfer capability remaining 
in the physical transmission network for further commercial activity over and above 
already committed uses. ATC is defined as the Total Transfer Capability (TTC), less 
the Transmission Reliability Margin (TRM), less the sum of existing transmission 
commitments (which includes retail customer interface reservations for future load 
growth and the Capacity Benefit Margin).
Base Transfers – transfers between balancing authorities that are modeled in the base 
cases utilized during interface evaluations. Base transfers in power flows used for 
interface import or export evaluations may not include all firm transactions in the 
opposite direction of the study transfers. 
CBM (Capacity Benefit Margin) – amount of transmission transfer capability reserved 
by load serving entities or Resource Planners to ensure access to generation from 
interconnected systems to meet generation reliability requirements. Reservation of 
CBM provides for the reduction of installed generating capacity below that which may

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
5
otherwise have been necessary without interconnections to meet its generation
reliability requirements.
Generation Loop Flows – loop flows occurring from the configuration of the network 
and location of generating units
ITC (Incremental Transfer Capability) – amount of transfer capability that can be 
accommodated in addition to the modeled base transfers.
Loop Flows – the difference between the scheduled and actual power flow, assuming 
zero inadvertent interchange, on a given transmission path. Synonyms: Parallel 
Path Flows, Unscheduled Power Flows, and Circulating Power Flows
NLR (Native Load Reservations) – interface and internal transmission reservations 
that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission allows native load customers to 
reserve for future load growth. 
Operating Reserves – additional generation available in generating units already on 
line or that can be made available within 15 minutes in case of generation 
emergencies. 
Transaction Loop Flows – loop flows resulting from electric power transactions and 
the configuration of the network.
TRM (Transmission Reliability Margin) – amount of transmission transfer capability 
necessary to provide a reasonable level of assurance that the interconnected 
transmission network will be secure under a reasonable range of uncertainties in 
system conditions.
TSA (Transmission Service Agreements) – power transactions that have been 
granted firm status. Normally these transactions are point– to– point service from 
a generation plant or control area to another control area or native load. 
TTC (Total Transfer Capability) – base transfers plus incremental transfer capability